A young man was getting ready to graduate college. 
For many months he had admired a beautiful sports car in a dealer’s showroom, and knowing his father could well afford it, he told him that was all he wanted. 
As Graduation Day approached, the young man awaited signs that his father had purchased the car. 
On the morning of his graduation his father called him into his private study.
His father told him how proud he was to have such a fine son, and told him how much he loved him. 
He handed his son a beautiful wrapped gift box. 
Curious, but somewhat disappointed the young man opened the box and found a lovely, leather-bound Holy Qur’an. 
Angrily, he raised his voice at his father and said, With all your money you give me a Holy book? and stormed out of the house, leaving the holy book.
He never contacted his father again for long long time.
 Many years passed and the young man was very successful in business. 
He had a beautiful home and wonderful family, but realized his father was very old, and thought perhaps he should go to him. 
He had not seen him since that graduation day.
Before he could make arrangements, he received a telegram telling him his father had passed away, and willed all of his possessions to his son. 
He needed to come home immediately and take care things. 
When he arrived at his father’s house, sudden sadness and regret filled his heart. 
He began to search his father’s important papers and saw the still new Holy Qur’an, just as he had left it years ago. 
With tears, he opened the Holy Qur’an and began to turn the pages. 
As he Read those words, a car key dropped from an envelope taped behind the Holy Qur’an. 
It had a tag with the dealer’s name, the same dealer who had the sports car he had desired. 
On the tag was the date of his graduation, and the words PAID IN FULL.
How many times do we miss GOD blessings because they are not packaged as we expected? WHAT IS A FAMILY? A man came home from work late, tired and irritated, to find his 5-year old son waiting for him at the door.
SON: Daddy, may I ask you a question? DAD: Yeah sure, what is it? replied the man.
SON: Daddy, how much do you make an hour? DAD: That’s none of your business. 
Why do you ask such a thing? the man said angrily.
SON: I just want to know. 
Please tell me, how much do you make an hour? DAD: If you must know, I make $20 an hour. 
Oh, the little boy replied, with his head down. 
Looking up, he said, Daddy, may I please borrow $10? BEAUTIFUL GIFT!  The father was furious, If the only reason you asked that is so you can borrow some money to buy a silly toy or some other nonsense, then you march yourself straight to your room and go to bed.
Think about why you are being so selfish. 
I work hard everyday for such this childish behavior. 
The little boy quietly went to his room and shut the door. 
The man sat down and started to get even angrier about the little boy’s questions. 
How dare he ask such questions only to get some money? After about an hour or so, the man had calmed down, and started to think: Maybe there was something he really needed to buy with that $10 and he really didn’t ask for money very often.
The man went to the door of the little boy’s room and opened the door.
Are you asleep, son? He asked. 
No daddy, I’m awake, replied the boy.
I’ve been thinking, maybe I was too hard on you earlier, said the man. 
It’s been a long day and I took out my aggravation on you. 
Here’s the $10 you asked for. 
The little boy sat straight up, smiling. 
Oh, thank you daddy! He yelled.
Then, reaching under his pillow he pulled out some crumpled up bills.
The man, seeing that the boy already had money, started to get angry again.
The little boy slowly counted out his money, and then looked up at his father.
Why do you want more money if you already have some? the father grumbled.
Because I didn’t have enough, but now I do, the little boy replied.
Daddy, I have $20 now. 
Can I buy an hour of your time? Please come home early tomorrow.
I would like to have dinner with you. 
Share this story with someone you like…. 
But even better, share $20 worth of time with someone you love. 
It’s just a short reminder to all of you working so hard in life.
We should not let time slip through our fingers without having spent some time with those who really matter to us, those close to our hearts.
If we die tomorrow, the company that we are working for could easily replace us in a matter of days.
But the family & friends we leave behind will feel the loss for the rest of their lives. 
And come to think of it, we pour ourselves more into work than to our family. 
An unwise investment indeed! So what is the moral of the story??? Don’t work too hard…and you know what’s the full word of FAMILY? FAMILY = (F)ATHER (A)ND (M)OTHER,(I)(L)OVE (Y)OU!  
