Mufasa and Rafiki look expectantly behind them.
Sarabi sits with a golden bundle in her paws.
Mufasa approaches, and the two nuzzle.
Sarabi licks the bundle, which turns to reveal the infant Simba.
Rafiki beams at Simba, then shakes his staff over the cub.
Simba paws at the gourds.
Rafiki breaks a gourd open, dips his thumb in the juice, and marks Simba's forehead.
Rafiki grabs a handful of sand and sprinkles it over Simba, causing him to sneeze.
Mufasa and Sarabi nuzzle.
Rafiki takes Simba in his arms and carries him away, with Mufasa and Sarabi exchanging a joyful look.
As Rafiki nears the promontory, the animals below raise their heads expectantly.
The sun shines down on Pride Rock, with the animals watching as Simba is presented from atop Pride Rock.
The title card appears, then fades.
A mouse scurries across the floor of a cave, sniffs the air, and washes its face.
For a moment, it sits peacefully.
Then it rears onto its hind legs, smelling the air, and a giant clawed paw crushes it.
Slowly, the paw draws the struggling, squealing mouse into the air to reveal Scar.
Life's not fair, is it? You see, I...
Well, I shall never be king.
Huh.
[Scar lets the mouse scurry across his paw.] And you...
[The mouse tries to jump to freedom, but Scar snags it in his claws again.] shall never see the light of another day.
Hmm, hmm.
Adieu.
Scar opens his jaws and lowers the mouse into his mouth.
Didn't your mother ever tell you not to play with your food?
The mouse struggles to wriggle out from under Scar's paw, to no avail.
What do you want?
I'm here to announce that King Mufasa's on his way, [Zazu bows over one wing.] so you'd better have a good excuse for missing the ceremony this morning.
With Scar distracted, the mouse wriggles out of his grasp and escapes into a nearby hole in the wall.
Oh, now, look, Zazu.
You've made me lose my lunch.
Ha! You'll lose more than that when the king gets through with you.
He's as mad as a hippo with a hernia.
Zazu crosses his wings huffily.
Oooh, I quiver with fear!
Scar crouches and bares his teeth at Zazu, who backs away fearfully.
Now, Scar, don't look at me that way.
Help!
Zazu tries to fly away, but Scar catches him in his jaws.
Mufasa's paw steps into view behind Scar.
Scar?
Scar looks at Mufasa over his shoulder, his cheeks puffed out.
Mm-hmm?
Drop him.
Zazu's beak pokes out of Scar's mouth.
Impeccable timing, Your Majesty.
[Scar spits out Zazu, who sits up with saliva-plastered wings.] Ugh.
Why, if it isn't my big brother [Scar saunters toward Mufasa.] descending from on high to mingle with the commoners.
Scar turns and saunters away.
Sarabi and I didn't see you at the presentation of Simba.
That was today? Oh, I feel simply awful! [Scar drags his claws along the wall, creating a screeching sound that makes Zazu cringe.] Must've slipped my mind.
Yes, well, as slippery as your mind is, [Zazu flies accusingly into Scar's face.] as the king's brother, you should've been first in line!
Scar snaps his jaws shut, causing Zazu to take refuge behind Mufasa's leg.
Well, I was first in line...
[Zazu peeks out at Scar, indignant.] until the little hairball was born.
Scar thrusts his face toward Zazu, who ducks back behind Mufasa's leg.
Mufasa lowers his head to Scar's level.
That hairball is my son [Mufasa and Scar lift their heads simultaneously.] and your future king.
Oh, I shall practice my curtsy.
Scar turns and walks away.
Don't turn your back on me, Scar.
Scar looks over his shoulder at Mufasa.
Oh, no, Mufasa.
Perhaps you shouldn't turn your back on me.
Once more, Scar turns and walks away.
Mufasa launches himself after Scar.
*roars* [Mufasa blocks Scar's way and advances threateningly.] Is that a challenge?!
Temper, temper.
I wouldn't dream [Scar rolls his eyes.] of challenging you.
Zazu emerges from under Mufasa.
Pity.
Why not?
Zazu puts his wings on his hips.
Scar ducks his head to address Zazu.
Well, as far as brains go, I got the lion's share, but when it comes to brute strength...
[Scar lifts his head to address Mufasa, clearly bitter and incensed.
After a moment, the expression fades, and he shoulders past Mufasa, who glares at him.
Scar looks back at Mufasa and Zazu.] I'm afraid I'm at the shallow end of the gene pool.
Scar walks off into the savanna.
*sighs* There's one in every family, sire.
Two in mine, actually.
[Zazu flies up to perch on Mufasa's shoulder.] And they always manage to ruin special occasions.
What am I going to do with him?
Zazu grins cheekly.
He'd make a very handsome throw rug.
Mufasa grins back.
Zazu!
And just think, [Zazu flies ahead of Mufasa, who walks after him.] whenever he gets dirty, you could take him out and beat him!

The scene fades.
Clouds roil over the savanna.
Thunder rumbles, and curtains of rain fall in the distance.
The smooth surface of a river is disrupted by heavy rainfall.
Thunder booms, and lightning zigzags across the sky, illuminating Rafiki's lone baobab tree.
Inside, Rafiki uses a gourd to paint a lion cub, with lightning occasionally lighting up his canvas.

The screen grows dark around the painting of Simba before it disappears completely.
The scene transitions to an early dawn at Pride Rock.
Simba, now a cub, emerges on the promontory, his tail raised.
With an excited look, he races away.
Simba races into the den, where the pride is sleeping.
Dad! Dad! Come on, Dad.
We gotta go.
Wake up!
Simba dodges around the lionesses, jostling them.
Oof!
Sorry!

Simba jumps up on Mufasa, who is sound asleep.
Dad! [Simba's expression turns dour when Mufasa does not respond.] Dad.
Your son is awake.
 (in the background)
Dad, Dad, Dad, Dad, Dad, Dad, Dad, Dad, Dad, Dad.
Before sunrise, he's your son.
Dad! Come on, Dad.
[Simba tugs Mufasa's ear, but loses his grip and tumbles out of view.] Whoa! [Simba headbutts Mufasa's face, and Mufasa sleepily opens one eye.] You promised!
Simba glares at Mufasa.
Okay, okay.
I'm up, I'm up.
Yeah!
Simba races away excitedly.

Simba skips out of the den, with Mufasa and Sarabi emerging shortly afterward.
Simba bounces up to Sarabi and rubs against her leg affectionately.
Sarabi gives his rump an encouraging nudge and watches, smiling, as Mufasa and Simba begin to ascend Pride Rock.
The next shot shows the top of Pride Rock illuminated by the rising sun, with Mufasa and Simba sitting side-by-side atop the summit.
Look, Simba.
Everything the light touches is our kingdom.
Wow.
A king's time as ruler rises and falls like the sun.
One day, Simba, the sun will set on my time here and will rise with you [Mufasa ducks down to Simba's level.] as the new king.
And this'll all be mine?
Everything.
Simba strides along the edge of Pride Rock, overlooking the Pride Lands.
Everything the light touches.
[Simba sits.] What about that shadowy place?
Simba looks back at Mufasa questioningly.
Mufasa strides toward Simba sternly.
That's beyond our borders.
You must never go there, Simba.
But I thought a king can do whatever he wants.
Mufasa smiles.
Oh, there's more to being king than getting your way all the time.
Mufasa strides away.
Simba follows Mufasa, grinning.
There's more?
*laughs* Simba...
The scene transitions.
Gazelles prance across the savanna.
Nearby, Mufasa and Simba stride side-by-side, with Pride Rock in the distance.
Everything you see exists together in a delicate balance.
As king, you need to understand that balance and respect all the creatures, from the crawling ant to the leaping antelope.
But, Dad, don't we eat the antelope?
Mufasa ducks down to Simba's level.
Yes, Simba, but let me explain.
[Mufasa lifts his head.] When we die, our bodies become the grass, and the antelope eat the grass.
And so [Mufasa ducks down to Simba's level.] we are all connected in the great Circle of Life.
Mufasa gestures with his head to a river, where gazelles cavort and giraffes graze from trees.
Zazu swoops in from overhead.
Good morning, sire!
Good morning, Zazu.
Zazu lands on a nearby boulder.
Checking in with the morning report!
Zazu bows.
Fire away.
Well! [Zazu speaks with one wing shielding his beak, as if to spread gossip.] The buzz from the bees is that the leopards are in a bit of a spot.
A grasshopper jumps past Simba, who takes chase.
Oh, really?
And the baboons are going ape over this.
[Simba continues to hunt the grasshopper, and Mufasa takes notice.] Of course, the giraffes are acting like they're above it all...
What are you doing, son?
Simba attempts to catch the grasshopper on a rock, but opens his paws to emptiness.
Pouncing.
Mufasa ducks down conspiratorially.
Let an old pro show you how it's done.
The tickbirds are pecking on the elephants.
I told the elephants to forget it, but they can't...
Zazu shrugs dramatically.
Zazu, would you turn around?
Yes, sire.
[Zazu turns around.] The cheetahs are hard up, but I always say...
Mufasa uses a paw to lower Simba's rump.
Stay low to the ground.
Zazu waves a wing emphatically.
Cheetahs never prosper...
Yeah, okay.
[Zazu glances quizzically at Mufasa and Simba over his shoulder.] Stay low to the ground, right? Yeah.
What's going on?
Pouncing lesson.
Oh, very good.
Pouncing.
[Zazu turns away, apparently satisfied.
Suddenly, he spasms.] Pouncing?! [Zazu turns back to face Mufasa.] Oh, no, sire, you can't be serious...
[Mufasa gestures with one paw for Zazu to turn around.] Oh...
[Zazu reluctantly turns around.] This is so humiliating.
Try not to make a sound.
Zazu glances over his shoulder.
What are you telling him, Mufasa? [Zazu looks behind him to find that Mufasa and Simba have seemingly disappeared.] Mufasa? [Zazu tenses his body.] Simba? [Simba pounces on Zazu.] *squawks*

The mole pops out of a hole in the dirt right beneath Zazu's head.
Zazu!
Yes!
The mole salutes Zazu.
Sir! News from the underground.
Mufasa wraps a paw around Simba.
Now, this time–
Sire! [Zazu's head emerges from behind a rock, his eyes wide and terrified.] Hyenas! In the Pride Lands!
Mufasa starts to bound away, but pauses to look at Zazu.
Zazu, take Simba home.
Simba strides after Mufasa.
Awww, Dad, can't I come?
Mufasa shakes his head.
No, son.
Mufasa runs off into the savanna.
Simba stalks off with his head low.
Pah! I never get to go anywhere.
Oh, young master, one day, you will be king.
[Zazu gestures with a wing.
He takes to the air and flies over Simba, who is heading toward Pride Rock.] Then you can chase those slobbering, mangy, stupid poachers from dawn until dusk.
The scene transitions.
Scar prowls along a rock ledge.
He pauses, then agitatedly knocks a bone off the edge.
As Scar continues to slink along, Simba bounds into view.
Hey, Uncle Scar, guess what?
Scar pauses.
He turns and glowers at Simba.
I despise guessing games.
Simba approaches Scar and strikes a pose.
I'm going to be king of Pride Rock.
Simba bounds away as Scar scowls.
Oh, goodie.
Simba walks to the ledge and overlooks the savanna.
My dad just showed me the whole kingdom.
[Simba looks at Scar over his shoulder.] And I'm gonna rule it all! *cackles*
Scar glares at Simba, his back hunched.
Yes.
Well, forgive me for not leaping for joy.
Bad back, you know.
Scar flops onto his side.
Simba approaches Scar and jumps up on his mane.
Hey, Uncle Scar.
When I'm king, what'll that make you?
A monkey's uncle.
Simba tumbles off Scar.
*laughs* You're so weird.
Scar lifts his head to meet Simba's gaze.
You have no idea.
[Scar stands up and walks away.] So, your father showed you the whole kingdom, did he?
Simba trails Scar.
Everything.
He didn't show you what's beyond that rise at the northern border.
Scar sits.
Simba sits also, his ears drooping.
Well, no.
He said I can't go there.
And he's absolutely right! It's far [Scar leans in dramatically.] too dangerous.
Only the bravest lions go there.
Scar looks away.
Simba stands and puffs out his chest.
Well, I'm brave! [Simba tilts his head questioningly.] What's out there?
No, I'm sorry, Simba.
[Scar looks away.] I just can't tell you.
Simba moves in front of Scar.
Why not?
Simba, Simba, [Simba sits.] I'm only looking out for the well-being of my favorite nephew.
Scar pats Simba's head with a comparatively giant paw.
*snorts* Yeah, right.
I'm your only nephew.
Simba peeks out from under Scar's paw.
All the more reason for me to be protective.
[Scar lifts a claw like it's his pinky.] An elephant graveyard is no place for a young prince.
[Simba stands up excitedly, and Scar slaps a paw to his mouth in mock horror.] Oops!
An elephant what? [Simba looks away.] Whoa...
Scar puts a paw to his head, feigning dismay.
Oh, dear, I've said too much.
Well, I suppose you'd have found out sooner or later, you being so clever and all.
[Simba tries to slink off, but Scar grabs him and pulls him close.] Oh, just do me one favor: promise me you'll never visit that dreadful place.
No problem.
There's a good lad.
[Scar nudges Simba away.] You run along now and have fun.
And remember...
[Simba pauses and looks back at Scar.] it's our little secret.
Simba runs off, and Scar walks away, smiling deviously.
The scene transitions.
Lionesses sun themselves on rocks as Simba races by.
He stops on a ledge where Sarabi is sleeping.
Across from her, Sarafina bathes Nala.
Hey, Nala.
Hi, Simba.
whispering, with one paw shielding his mouth] Come on, I just heard about this great place.
Simba! I'm kind of in the middle of a bath.
Simba glowers.
And it's time for yours.
Simba tries to escape, but Sarabi snatches him up in her jaws, deposits him in her lap, and starts licking him.
Simba struggles to get away.
Mom! Mom, you're messing up my mane.
[Sarabi licks Simba's forehead, giving him a cowlick.
She smiles down at him affectionately.
Simba jumps out of her lap and smoothes down the cowlick.] Okay, okay.
I'm clean.
Can we go now?
Nala lies on her back while Sarafina bathes her rump and sides.
So, where are we going? It better not be any place dumb.
Simba approaches.
No.
It's really cool.
So, where is this "really cool" place?
Simba flinches.
Oh.
[Simba turns around and smiles brightly.] Uh...around the water hole.
The water hole?! What's so great about the water hole?
Simba smiles innocently at his mother before turning on Nala.
in an aside to Nala] I'll show you when we get there.
Oh.
Uh, Mom? [Nala sits up.] Can I go with Simba?
Hmm.
What do you think, Sarabi?
Well...
Simba and Nala walk up to Sarabi, grinning exaggeratedly.
Nala and Simba:
Please?
It's all right with me.
Simba and Nala bound away excitedly.
Yeah!
All right!
As long as Zazu goes with you.
Simba and Nala pull up short in dismay.
No, not Zazu!
The scene transitions.
Simba and Nala follow a dirt trail to the water hole, with Zazu flying overhead.
Step lively.
The sooner we get to the water hole, the sooner we can leave.
whispering] So, where are we really going?
whispering] An elephant graveyard.
Wow!
whispering] Shh! Zazu.
whispering] Right.
So, how are we gonna ditch the dodo?
whispering] Oh, I know how we can...
Zazu notices the cubs talking in low voices.
He swoops down to join them.
Oh, just look at you two.
Little seeds of romance blossoming in the savanna.
[Simba and Nala exchange bored looks.
Zazu bows.] Your parents will be thrilled, what with your being betrothed and all.
Simba tilts his head.
Be-what?
Betrothed.
Intended.
Affianced.
Simba and Nala exchange confused looks.
Nala leans forward.
Meaning?
One day, you two are going to be married!
Zazu grabs his sides like he's holding on to his coat lapels.
Simba sticks out his tongue.
Yuck!
Ewww!
Simba ducks down to Zazu's level.
Zazu crosses his wings huffily.
I can't marry her.
She's my friend.
Nala ducks down on Zazu's other side.
Yeah, it'd be so weird.
Well, sorry to burst your bubble, but you two turtle doves have no choice.
[Zazu walks off, gesturing dramatically.
Simba mouths, "blah, blah, blah," behind Zazu's back.] It's a tradition going back generations.
Well, when I'm king, that'll be the first thing to go.
Simba winks at Nala.
Not so long as I'm around.
Simba strides up to Zazu.
Well, in that case, you're fired.
Hmm.
Nice try, but only the king can do that.
Zazu pokes Simba's nose.
Nala strides up to join Simba.
Well, he's the future king.
Yeah.
So you have to do what I tell you.
Simba thumps Zazu's chest.
Zazu puts his wings on his hips.
Not yet, I don't.
And with an attitude like that, [Simba gestures flippantly.
Simba and Nala walk away.] I'm afraid you're shaping up to be a pretty pathetic king indeed.
Simba looks over his shoulder at Zazu.
Hmph.
Not the way I see it.
[Simba nudges Zazu with his head, so forcefully that Zazu flips over a log.
Zazu's back end gets stuck in a hole in the log.
Zazu plucks out one of Simba's hairs.
Simba roars into Zazu's face, causing him to fall backward into a mud puddle.
Zazu stumbles forward, covered in mud.
Zazu dries himself on a nearby red towel.
The view changes to reveal that the "towel" is actually an elephant's ear.
The elephant slaps Zazu away with its trunk, sending him skipping across a nearby body of water.
In the water's reflection is a flock of flamingos.
The flamingos fly away as Simba and Nala race through the water after Zazu.
Zazu stumbles into a little brook.
You've rather a long way to go, young master.
[Simba and Nala skip into view, each on one side of the brook.
Zazu points accusingly into Simba's face.] If you think...
Behind Zazu's back, Nala sticks out her tongue.
Now, when I said that...
Zazu turns to face Nala.
Behind his back, Simba sticks out his tongue and pulls out each cheek.
What I meant was...
Zazu turns to face Simba.
Behind his back, Nala makes a fish face.
What you don't realize...
Simba and Nala make faces at Zazu before bounding off.
Simba and Nala:
Now see here! [An ostrich runs by, nearly trampling Zazu.] *screams*
Two ostriches, one bearing Simba and one bearing Nala, race away into a hilly area.
Zazu takes to the air.
Well, that's definitely out.
Simba and Nala ride along on the ostriches.
Zazu flits through a forest.
The silhouettes of Simba and Nala on their ostriches race alongside him.
Zazu flies in front of Simba and Nala.
Zazu hits a green wall, which is revealed to be a rhinoceros's back end.
Simba and Nala's ostriches approach.
They duck their heads so the cubs can look directly at Zazu.
Simba and Nala's ostriches race away.
Zazu falls to the ground.
He takes flight and lands on a log.
Zebras part to make way for Simba and Nala, who walk between them with a spotlight shining down on them.
Zazu tries to follow the cubs, but the zebras turn their backs on him and raise their tails.
Zazu shields his head with a wing.
Meanwhile, Simba and Nala cavort through a herd of elephants.
Zazu searches for them from above before swooping down among the herd.
Simba stands on a giraffe's head.
Animals stream past, running over Zazu.

Zazu shoves his way between two animals' rears.
Not yet!
The rears crush him between them.
Simba whispers to a hippo, who whispers to a giraffe, who whispers to a monkey.
The monkeys hold Zazu captive and groom him for bugs.
The animals form a tower.
The animals fall, with Zazu getting crushed beneath a rhinoceros.
from under the rhinoceros] I beg your pardon, madam, but...get...off! [The rhinoceros does not budge, merely continues to sit in the empty clearing.] Simba! Nala!
The scene transitions to the savanna.
Simba and Nala race to freedom.
Simba and Nala:

Simba and Nala pause.
All right! It worked!
We lost him.
Simba lifts his chin pridefully.
I am a genius.
Nala starts to walk off, but pauses and looks back in disgust.
Hey, genius, it was my idea.
Yeah, but I [Simba gestures to himself with one paw.] pulled it off.
With me!
Oh, yeah? [Simba pounces on Nala.] Rawr!
Simba and Nala roll on the ground.
Nala pins Simba on his back.
Ha!

Pinned ya!
Hey, let me up! [Simba shoves Nala off.
She starts to walk away, chin raised smugly.
Simba smiles impishly, then pounces on her again.] Rawr!
Simba and Nala roll down a steep embankment.
Simba and Nala:

Nala pins Simba on his back.
Pinned ya again.
A nearby geyser erupts.
Simba and Nala:

As the steam clears, Simba and Nala notice a nearby ridge, over which an elephant skull is barely visible.
Simba pads closer, a grin spreading across his face.
Together, the cubs climb the ridge to view the skull.
This is it.
We made it.
Simba and Nala jump up on one of the skull's tusks and overlook the Elephant Graveyard.
They exchange awed looks.
Simba and Nala:
Whoa!
It's really creepy.
Yeah.
Isn't it great?
We could get in big trouble.
I know! *chuckles*
Simba and Nala approach the skull.
I wonder if its brains are still in there.
Simba grins deviously.
There's only one way to know.
Come on.
[Simba walks toward the skull.] Let's go check it out.
Zazu flits in front of Simba, blocking his path.
Wrong! [Zazu shoos Simba away from the skull.] The only checking out you will do will be to check out of here.
Simba reluctantly walks away.
Awww, man!
Zazu wrings his wings nervously.
We're way beyond the boundary of the Pride Lands.
Simba ducks down to Zazu's level.
Look! Banana Beak is scared.
*snickers*
Zazu pokes Simba's nose with a feather, as if it's a finger.
It's Mister Banana Beak to you, fuzzy.
And right now, we are all in very real danger.
Zazu looks around nervously while Simba strides past him.
Danger? Ha! I walk on the wild side.
[Simba pauses in front of the skull, crouching low.] I laugh in the face of danger.
[Simba rears back his head dramatically.] Ha, ha, ha, ha!
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:
from inside the skull] *laugh*
Simba's expression turns to horror.
He races away from the skull and hides behind Nala and Zazu.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed emerge from within the elephant skull and prowl toward Simba and Nala, whom Zazu shields with his wings.
Well, well, well, Banzai.
What have we got here?
Hmm.
I don't know, Shenzi.
Uh, what do you think, Ed?
Banzai looks back at Ed.

Yeah, just what I was thinking...
A trio of trespassers!
Banzai juts his head accusingly at Zazu, who continues to shield Simba and Nala with his wings.
Zazu clasps his wings like they're hands.
And quite by accident, let me assure you.
[Simba and Nala start to slink off.] A simple navigational error.
Zazu tries to follow Simba and Nala, but Shenzi steps on his tail, halting him.
Whoa, whoa.
Wait, wait, wait.
I know you.
You're Mufasa's little stooge!
Shenzi ducks down to Zazu's level.
Zazu pulls his tail out from under Shenzi's paw.
I, madam, am the king's majordomo.
Banzai and Ed circle Simba and Nala.
And that would make you...
The future king!
Shenzi joins Banzai and Ed in circling Simba and Nala.
Do you know what we do to kings who step out of their kingdom?
Puh! You can't do anything to me.
Uh, technically, they can.
[Zazu steeples his wings like they're fingers.] We are on their land.
But, Zazu, you told me they're nothing but slobbering, [Zazu desperately signals Simba to stop.] mangy, stupid poachers.
Zazu nervously clasps his wings like they're hands.
Ix-nay on the upid-stay...
Banzai juts his head accusingly at Zazu.
Who are you callin' "upid-stay"?!
My, my, my! [Simba, Nala, and Zazu try to run away.] Oh, look at the sun! It's time to go!
Shenzi cuts off Simba, Nala, and Zazu.
What's the hurry? We'd love [Shenzi advances on Simba, Nala, and Zazu, causing them to back away.
Zazu shields the cubs with his wings.] you to stick around for dinner.
Yeah, we could have whatever's "lion" around! *laughs*
 (in the background)
Get it? Lion around? *laughs*
Wait, wait, wait! [Shenzi wags a paw at Banzai.] I got one! I got one! Make mine a "cub" sandwich.
Whatcha think? *laughs*
Ed gestures wildly.

What, Ed? What is it?
Banzai looks in the direction Ed is pointing.
Hey, did we order this dinner to-go?
No.
Why?
'Cause there it goes!
Simba and Nala race away, with Zazu flying overhead.
Simba and Nala:

As he flies, Zazu is caught by his tail and yanked backward.

Simba and Nala:

Simba and Nala pause in the middle of the Elephant Graveyard.
Did we lose 'em?
I think so.
[Simba looks around.] Where's Zazu?
Zazu struggles as Banzai jerks him around by his wings.
Ed and Shenzi watch gleefully.
Aah!
The little majordomo bird hippety-hopped all the way to the birdie boiler.
Banzai shoves Zazu into a geyser.
Oh, no! Not the birdie boiler! [The geyser explodes, sending Zazu shooting into the air like a rocket.] Aah!
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Hey! [Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed stop laughing and look up to where Simba is standing on the ridge above them.] Why don't you pick on somebody your own size?
Like you?
Oops.
Simba and Nala run away.
Shenzi nips at Nala's hindquarters.

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed emerge through the steam, blocking Simba and Nala's path.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:
Boo!
Simba and Nala skid to a halt.
Simba and Nala:

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed bite threateningly at Simba and Nala.
They run away, with the hyenas in hot pursuit.
The cubs climb an elephant skull, and Banzai leaps after them, taking a snap at their hindquarters.

Simba and Nala slide down an elephant spine.
They shoot off the end and land on a hill of bones.
Simba and Nala:

Simba and Nala begin to climb hastily as the hyenas close in from below.
from offscreen] Simba!
Simba pauses at the top of the hill and looks back in horror.

Nala slides down the hill toward the hyenas.

Simba races back down the hill and scratches Shenzi's cheek right as she is about to bite Nala.

Simba and Nala race into a high-walled section of the Elephant Graveyard.
They clamber up an elephant skeleton and paw desperately at the high wall, only for the rotting skin to break under them and send them tumbling to the ground.
They clamber back to their paws, backing away in terror.
Simba and Nala:

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed close in.
Here, kitty, kitty, kitty.
Simba stands protectively in front of a cowering Nala.

That was it? *laughs* Do it again.
Come on.
Simba roars again, seemingly with a full-grown lion's roar.

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed pause.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:
Huh?
Mufasa swats Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed aside.

Mufasa attacks Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed.
Simba and Nala watch in terror while Zazu lands next to them.
Mufasa pins the hyenas to the ground.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Oh, please, please! Uncle! Uncle!
Ow, ow, ow!
Silence!
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed flinch.
Oh, come on, we're gonna shut up right now!
Calm down.
We're really sorry.
If you ever come near my son again...
Oh, this is...this is your son?
Oh, yours!
Banzai points at Mufasa, then rubs his head with one paw, as if in mock realization.
Did you know that?
No! Me? [Banzai gestures to himself with one paw.] I didn't know.
No! Did you?
No, of course not!
No.
Shenzi and Banzai:
Ed?
Shenzi and Banzai look at Ed.


Shenzi and Ed hug one another in fear.
Heh, heh.
Toodles!
Banzai waves at Mufasa.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed flee the scene.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Zazu lands next to Mufasa and nods satisfactorily.
Mufasa turns and glares at him, causing him to flinch back.
Simba and Nala approach tentatively from behind.
Dad, I...
Mufasa looks sternly over one shoulder.
You deliberately disobeyed me.
Simba looks crestfallen.
Dad, I'm...I'm sorry.
Let's go home.
Mufasa walks off.
Zazu flies after him, casting a sad look at Simba and Nala.
Simba and Nala trail after Mufasa.
I thought you were very brave.
Simba looks away sadly.
Overhead, Scar watches the party leave with a furious look on his face.
The scene transitions to evening.
Mufasa stalks across the savanna, with Simba and Nala trailing behind him and Zazu flying overhead.
Nala peers uncertainly at Simba, who keeps his head down.
Zazu watches the cubs from overhead.
Zazu!
Zazu flinches and hurriedly lands in front of Mufasa.
He folds his wings nervously.
Yes, sire?
Take Nala home.
I've got to teach my son a lesson.
Mufasa glares over one shoulder at Simba.
Simba ducks low in the grass, with Nala watching in concern.
Zazu flies over to Simba and Nala, and alights in-between them.
Come, Nala.
Simba? [Zazu puts his wings on Simba's shoulders.] *sighs* Good luck.
Zazu flies off.
Nala follows him, with one final look over her shoulder at Simba.
Simba! [Simba flinches and starts walking dejectedly toward Mufasa.
As he walks, he accidentally steps into Mufasa's pawprint.
He stares down at his tiny paw in the huge indentation.
Then he skirts around the pawprint and sits next to Mufasa.
He looks up at his father nervously.
Mufasa glares into the distance, then looks down at Simba.] Simba, I'm very disappointed in you.
Simba bows his head in shame.
I know.
You could've been killed.
You deliberately disobeyed me.
And what's worse, you put Nala in danger!
*breathes heavily* I was just trying to be brave like you.
Simba's voice breaks at the end.
I'm only brave when I have to be.
Simba...being brave doesn't mean you go looking for trouble.
But you're not scared of anything.
Mufasa looks wistfully into the distance.
I was today.
You were?
Yes.
[Mufasa ducks down to Simba's level.
His voice softens.] I thought I might lose you.
Oh.
I guess even kings get scared, huh?
Simba smiles.
Mufasa nods.
Mm-hmm.
Simba leans in conspiratorially.
But you know what?
Mufasa leans in, playing along.
What?
I think those hyenas were even scareder.
*chuckles* [Mufasa grins deviously and lifts one paw.] 'Cause nobody messes with your dad.
[Mufasa grabs Simba and gives him a noogie.] Come here, you!
Oh, no, no! [Simba struggles against Mufasa.] Agh! Uh! [Simba wriggles free.] Uh.
[Simba pounces on Mufasa.] Ah! Come here!
Mufasa runs away from Simba, who gives chase.

*laughs* [Simba pounces on Mufasa.] Gotcha!
Simba tugs on Mufasa's ear with his teeth.
Mufasa and Simba:

Simba perches on Mufasa's mane.
*pants* Dad?
Mufasa looks up at Simba.
Hmm?
We're pals, right?
*chuckles* Right.
And we'll always be together, right?
Mufasa sits up, suddenly somber.
Simba...let me tell you something that my father told me.
[Mufasa looks up at the stars.] Look at the stars.
[Simba looks up at the stars in wonder.] The Great Kings of the Past look down on us from those stars.
Simba glances down at Mufasa.
Really?
Mufasa glances over one shoulder at Simba.
Yes.
[Mufasa and Simba look up at the stars.] So whenever you feel alone, just remember that those kings will always be there to guide you...and so will I.
The scene transitions to a geyser-ridden section of the Elephant Graveyard.
Banzai and Ed's voices echo up the tall rocky walls.
Man, that lousy Mufasa.
I won't be able to sit for a week.
Ed grins at Banzai, whose rear is covered in claw marks.

It's not funny, Ed.

Hey, shut up! *growls*
Banzai lunges at Ed.
They scuffle.
Banzai and Ed:

From a nearby ledge, Shenzi turns and glowers at the feuding Banzai and Ed.
Will you knock it off?!
Banzai and Ed break apart.
Banzai points at Ed, who begins chewing on one of his own legs.
Well, he started it!
Look at you guys! [Shenzi descends from the ledge.] No wonder we're danglin' at the bottom of the food chain.
with drool hanging from his muzzle] Man, I hate danglin'.
Shyeah.
You know, if it weren't for those lions, we'd be runnin' the joint.
Shenzi sits, glowering.
Yeah.
Man, I hate lions.
Shenzi juts her head at Banzai.
So pushy...
And hairy...
Shenzi circles Banzai and juts her head at him from his other side.
And stinky...
And man, are they...
Banzai and Shenzi jump onto their hind legs, back-to-back.
Banzai and Shenzi:
Ugly! *snicker*
Oh, [Banzai and Shenzi pause midlaugh, looking fearful.
Scar sits on a ledge far above them and is briefly obscured by a steaming geyser.] surely we lions are not all that bad.
Oh.
[Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed relax.] Oh, Scar, it's just you.
We were afraid it was somebody important.
Yeah, you know, like Mufasa.
Yeah.
scowling] I see.
Now that's power.
Tell me about it.
I just hear that name, and I shudder.
Mufasa.
Shenzi shudders.
Ooh.
[Shenzi nudges Banzai.] Do it again.
Mufasa!
Shenzi shudders.
Ooh!
Mufasa, [Shenzi shudders, holding her stomach.] Mufasa, [Ed rolls onto his back, giggling and holding his stomach.] Mufasa!
Ooh!

Ooh, it tingles me.
Scar holds one paw to his forehead in exasperation.
I'm surrounded [Scar rolls his eyes.] by idiots.
Now, you, Scar, I mean, you're one of us.
[Banzai gestures to Ed and Shenzi, who are scratching themselves.] I mean, you're our pal.
Scar looks away, unaffected.
Charmed.
Oh, I like that.
He's not king, but he's still so proper.
Shenzi holds up one paw delicately.
Yeah.
[Banzai juts his head at Scar.] Hey, hey, did you bring us anything to eat, Scar, old buddy, old pal? Huh? [Scar glowers at Banzai.] Did ya, did ya, did ya?
I don't think you really deserve this.
Scar pulls out a zebra haunch.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed jump onto their hind legs, tongues lolling.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

I practically gift-wrapped those cubs for you, and you couldn't even dispose of them.
Scar drops the haunch.
The haunch lands at Shenzi's, Banzai's, and Ed's paws.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed begin to devour the haunch.
with her mouth full] Well, you know, it wasn't exactly like they was alone, Scar.
with his mouth full] Yeah.
What were we supposed to do? *gulps* Kill Mufasa?
Scar grins and balances his chin on one paw.
Precisely.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed look up questioningly.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:
Huh?
Scar leaps down the ledge, landing in the middle of the hyenas, who scatter.
He walks in-between steaming green geysers.
Shenzi approaches from behind a crag.
And where do we feature?
Scar grabs Shenzi's cheek.
Just listen to teacher.
[Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed emerge from the bone pile, each sporting an animal skull as a hat.
Yeah! Be prepared! Yeah-heh! We'll be prepared! Heh! [Banzai peers up at Scar questioningly.] For what?
For the death of the king.
Banzai climbs up to Scar's ledge.
Why? Is he sick?
Scar grabs Banzai by the throat and jerks him close.
No, fool.
We're gonna kill him.
And Simba, too.
Scar drops Banzai, who lands next to Shenzi and Ed.
Great idea! Who needs a king?
Shenzi and Ed circle Banzai, who claps.
Banzai and Shenzi:
Idiots! There will be a king!
Banzai lifts one paw questioningly.
Hey, but you said-
I will be king! Stick with me, [Scar grins.
Yellow pillars of light shine on the wall behind him.] and you'll never go hungry again!
Banzai and Shenzi:
Yay! All right! All right! Long live the king!
Ranks upon ranks of hyenas line the ledges behind Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed.
First the left side, then the right side are illuminated in yellow light.
Long live the king! Long live the king!
The hyena army goose-steps past Scar, who observes from a ledge above.
Three hyenas rise on a pillar, wagging their tails in unison.
Scar stands on a rock pillar as it shoots into the air.
The hyenas throng around him, each standing on a rock ledge or pillar.
Hyenas dance from rock pillar to rock pillar.
One hyena plays an animal spine like it's a xylophone.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed emerge through the steam.
Scar stands at the top of a large rock formation, silhouetted against the moon.
The hyenas are gathered on the ledges below him.
The red light of the geysers dies out.
The scene transitions to a sunny day at the gorge.
Now, you wait here.
Your father has a marvelous surprise for you.
Simba follows Scar through the gorge.
Ooh, what is it?
If I told you, [Simba clambers onto a rock beneath a tree.] it wouldn't be a surprise, now would it?
Scar grins.
If you tell me, I'll still act surprised!
Ho, ho, ho! [Simba sits.] You are such a naughty boy!
Simba jumps up on Scar's mane.
Come on, Uncle Scar.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
This is just for you and your daddy.
[Simba sits back down.] You know, a sort of father-son [Scar waves vaguely with one paw.
Simba sulks.] ...thing.
Well, I'd better go get him.
Scar turns to leave.
Simba bounds after Scar.
I'll go with you.
Scar juts his head at Simba, halting him in his tracks.
No! *chuckles* No.
[Scar guides Simba back onto the rock.] Just stay on this rock.
[Simba sits, with a poutful look.] You wouldn't want to end up in another mess like you did with the hyenas.
You know about that?
with lips pursed] Simba, everybody knows about that.
Simba ducks his head in embarrassment.
Really?
Oh, yes.
Lucky Daddy was there to save you, eh? Ooh, [Scar wraps a paw around Simba's shoulders and draws him close.] and just between us, you might want to work on that little roar of yours.
Hmm?
Oh.
Okay.
[Scar turns to leave.] Hey, Uncle Scar, [Scar pauses in his tracks, with Simba grinning in the background.] will I like the surprise?
Simba, it's to die for.
Scar grins slyly.
Simba sits back down on the rock.
Meanwhile, Scar walks off.
At the top of the gorge, a herd of wildebeests grazes on grass, while Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed watch from beneath a rocky outcropping.

Shut up.
I can't help it.
I'm so hungry.
[Banzai stands up and stares longingly at the wildebeest herd.] I gotta have a wildebeest.
Stay put.
Banzai sits and holds up a paw in appeal.
Well, can't I just pick off one of the little sick ones?
Shenzi jabs Banzai in the chest.
No! We wait for the signal from Scar.
[Banzai lowers his head sulkily.
Scar appears on a ledge above Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed, his mane blowing in the wind.] There he is.
[Shenzi frowns dramatically.] Let's go.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed move off.
Meanwhile, Simba lies on his rock, still moping.
"Little roar." Puh! [A chameleon hangs down from a branch and starts walking past Simba.
Simba's ears perk.] *growls* [The chameleon does not react.
Simba bounds after it.] *growls again* [The chameleon does not react.
With a devious grin, Simba pounces, landing just behind the chameleon.] *roars* [The chameleon runs off.
Simba's roar echoes off the walls of the gorge.
Simba smiles.
There is a deep rumbling sound, and Simba looks down to where tiny stones are pattering at his paws.
He looks up uncertainly.
A herd of wildebeests stampedes into the gorge.
Simba's expression turns to horror.] *gasps*
Simba runs away.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed chase the wildebeests, nipping at their sides.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

The last of the herd streams into the gorge.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed pause and pace along the edge of the gorge.
Simba continues to run, with the herd steadily catching up.
Meanwhile, Zazu perches on Mufasa's shoulder.
In the distance, dust rises from the gorge.
Oh, look, sire.
The herd is on the move.
Mufasa looks over his shoulder at the gorge.
Odd.
from offscreen] Mufasa, quick.
[Scar appears, wild-eyed, on a ledge below Mufasa and Zazu.] Stampede, in the gorge.
Simba's down there.
terrified] Simba?
Simba flees the stampede.
As the wildebeests close in, he looks over his shoulder in fear.
*gasps* [Simba climbs a dead tree in the middle of the gorge.] *grunts* [Mufasa and Scar rush to the gorge.
Zazu flies ahead and swoops over the herd.
He spots Simba, with a panicked expression.
He flies up to Simba.] Zazu, help me!
Your father is on the way! [Simba slips and barely manages to hold on to the tree.] Hold on!
Simba clings to the tree for dear life.
Hurry!
Mufasa and Scar clamber down to a ledge above the stampede.
Both search the gorge below with fearful expressions.
Zazu flies up and points at Simba.
There! There! On that tree!
Simba struggles to hold on to the tree.
Hold on, Simba!
A wildebeest runs into Simba's tree, breaking it.
Simba nearly falls.

Oh, Scar, this is awful! What'll we do? What'll we do?! Ha! I'll go back for help.
That's what I'll do.
I'll go back for he– [Scar backhands Zazu.] Oof!
Zazu hits the wall of the gorge and falls unconscious.
In the meantime, Mufasa races alongside the wildebeests.
Simba struggles to hold on to his tree.
Mufasa pivots around a wildebeest and runs against the stampede.
However, a wildebeest kicks him, knocking him over.

Mufasa looks up in desperation at Simba's struggling form.
A wildebeest breaks Simba's tree, sending him flying into the air.

Mufasa leaps into the air, catching Simba in his jaws.


Mufasa lands with Simba in his jaws.
Scar paces along the edge of the gorge, watching the action down below.
A wildebeest runs into Mufasa, causing him to let go of Simba.

Simba tumbles into the midst of the stampede.

Simba stands and looks around in terror.
Mufasa emerges through the dust and grabs Simba in his jaws once more.
A wildebeest falls to the ground behind him.
Mufasa leaps onto a ledge and deposits Simba to safety.
A wildebeest catches him from behind, drawing him back into the stampede.

Dad!
Mufasa falls among the wildebeests.
Simba searches the stampede with increasing distress.
At last, Mufasa leaps out of the stampede and latches on to the edge of the gorge.

Scar leans in, grinning evilly.
Long live the king.
Mufasa's face darkens with horror.
Scar heaves Mufasa into the stampede.
Mufasa falls, flailing.

From atop the gorge, Simba witnesses Mufasa's fall.
No! [Simba climbs down to the bottom of the gorge as the last of the wildebeests disappear into the dust.] *coughs* Dad? [Simba searches the gorge.
The sound of shifting rock catches his attention.] Dad? [A wildebeest emerges through the dust and runs by a broken tree, under which Mufasa's body lies.
Simba stares in trepidation.
He bounds forward and skirts around Mufasa's body, looking upon him with distress and sorrow.
He approaches uncertainly.] Dad? Dad, come on.
[Simba nudges against Mufasa's muzzle, trying to get him to stand up.] You gotta get up.
Dad? [Simba jumps on Mufasa's mane, shaking him.] We gotta go home.
[Simba races around to Mufasa's other side and tugs on his ear.
Simba lets go, and Mufasa's head flops back into place.
Simba backs away, looking around helplessly.
He races off.] Help! [Simba's voice echoes.
He pauses and looks around.] Somebody! [Simba's voice echoes.
He looks around.] Anybody? [Simba's voice echoes.
He sniffles and begins to cry.] Help.
Simba looks back at Mufasa's body and shuffles back to it.
He worms under Mufasa's paw and lies down, still sobbing.
Scar emerges through the dust.
He looks down on Simba.
Simba...
[Simba looks up with one tear-filled eye.] What have you done?
Simba jumps out from under Mufasa's paw.
There were wildebeests, and he tried to save me.
It was an accident.
I-I didn't mean for it to happen.
with feigned pity] Of course, of course you didn't.
[Scar draws Simba against his leg.
Simba nuzzles into Scar.] No one ever means for these things to happen.
But the king is dead.
[Simba looks up at Scar.] And if it weren't for you, he'd still be alive.
[Simba stares at Scar in dismay.
He slowly lowers his head and nuzzles back into Scar's leg.] *gasps* [Simba looks up.] What will your mother think?
through labored breathing] What am I gonna do?
Scar leans toward Simba, who backs away.
Run away, Simba.
[Simba glances at Mufasa.] Run.
Run away, and never return.
[With a backward glance, Simba takes off.
Scar watches him run, with a pleased look.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed prowl up behind Scar.] Kill him.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed take off after Simba.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Simba pauses at a dead-end in the gorge.

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Simba runs away.

Simba slips through a crack in the walls.
Banzai nearly claws Simba from behind.

Simba runs along the top of the gorge.
He pulls up short at a steep ledge.
Below him is a large thorn patch.

Simba looks over his shoulder with fright.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed race toward him.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Simba launches himself over the cliffside.
He tumbles down the ledge.

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed pursue Simba down the ledge.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Simba tumbles over the ledge into the thorn patch.

Simba looks up fearfully at Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed.
They pursue him down the ledge.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Simba climbs through the thorns.

Whoa! [Banzai tries to slow himself down to keep from falling into the thorn hedge.] Phew! [Shenzi knocks into Banzai from behind.
He nearly falls in.] Uh! [Ed knocks into Shenzi from behind, which sends Banzai flying into the thorn hedge.] Ah! [Banzai jumps out of the thorn hedge, covered in thorns, clinging to his hindquarters.] Yow!
Shenzi and Ed watch from the ledge.
Shenzi and Ed:

Banzai clambers onto the ledge, still covered in thorns.
Ah! Oh! Yeow!
Banzai walks onto the ledge, wincing with every step.
Ed rolls onto his back.
Shenzi and Ed:

Shenzi looks back at Simba.
Hey! [Simba runs off into the sunset.] There he goes! There he goes!
Banzai pulls a thorn out of his paw.
So go get him.
There ain't no way I'm going in there.
What, you want me to come out looking like you, [Shenzi glances back at Banzai.] cactus butt?
Banzai pulls a thorn out of his rear and spits it at Ed.

But we gotta finish the job.
Well, [Banzai sidles up next to Shenzi.] he's as good as dead out there anyway.
And if he comes back, we'll kill him.
Yeah! [yelling at Simba] You hear that? If you ever come back, we'll kill ya!
Banzai's voice echoes.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

The hyenas turn back, while Simba races off into the sunset.
The scene transitions to a night at Pride Rock.
Scar speaks from atop a nearby boulder to the lionesses, who are gathered below him.
Mufasa's death is a terrible tragedy.
But to lose Simba, who had barely begun to live...
[Scar puts a paw to his forehead in feigned sorrow.
The lionesses bow their heads mournfully.] For me, [Zazu rests a comforting wing on Sarabi's paw.] it is a deep, personal loss.
[Nala sheds a tear and nuzzles into her mother's leg.] So it is with a heavy heart that I assume the throne.
[Behind Scar, the shadows of hyenas stretch tall on Pride Rock.] Yet out of the ashes of this tragedy, we shall rise to greet [Zazu gasps and looks up.] the dawning of a new era, [The lionesses gasp and look up.
Scar bounds toward Pride Rock.
Hyenas slink in among the lionesses.] in which lion and hyena come together [Scar begins to ascend Pride Rock.] in a great and glorious future!
From all directions, hyenas stream toward Pride Rock.

Rafiki watches the coronation from afar.
He bows and shakes his head.

The scene transitions to Rafiki sitting sadly in his baobab tree.
He sheds a tear and wipes it away.
He swipes his hand across the painting of Simba, smudging it.
The scene transitions to the desert, where Simba is passed out under the hot sun.
Several vultures swoop overhead, cawing.
They gather around him and begin to feast.
Suddenly, Pumbaa charges at the vultures, with Timon riding in his mane.
Timon and Pumbaa:
Yah!
Timon and Pumbaa shoo the vultures away.
Get out! Get out! Get out of here!
I love this!
Whoo!
Bowling for buzzards.
Hee, hee, hee.
[Timon dusts himself off.] Gets 'em every time.
*laughs*
from offscreen] Uh-oh.
[Timon glances back at Pumbaa.] Hey, Timon, you better come look.
I think it's still alive.
with a disgusted look] Ewww.
[Timon approaches, dusting off his hands.] All righty, what have we got here? [Timon sniffs Simba.
He lifts Simba's paw off his face.] *grunts* [Timon darts away in terror.] Jeez, it's a lion! [Timon jumps into Pumbaa's mane and pulls his ears as if they're reins.] Run, Pumbaa! Move it!
Hey, Timon, it's just a little lion.
[Pumbaa ducks down to Simba's level.] Look at him.
He's so cute and all alone.
[Pumbaa looks over one shoulder at Timon.] Can we keep him?
Pumbaa, [Timon tugs on one of Pumbaa's ears and shouts into it, creating an echo effect.] are you nuts? [Timon darts onto Pumbaa's head and grabs his ears.] You're talking about a lion.
[Timon crawls onto Pumbaa's snout.] Lions eat guys like us.
Pumbaa bows his head, causing Timon to fall to the ground.
But he's so little.
From the ground, Timon wags a finger at Pumbaa.
He's gonna get bigger.
Maybe he'll be on our side.
Ha! [Timon stands.] That's the stupidest thing I ever heard.
[Timon dusts himself off.] Maybe he'll be...
[Timon pulls up short and holds up a finger as he has a sudden realization.] Hey, I've got it.
What if he's on our side? [Timon gestures dramatically.
He puts a pensive finger to his chin.] You know, having a lion around [Timon grasps onto Pumbaa's nostrils.] might not be such a bad idea.
Timon climbs into Pumbaa's mane.
Pumbaa struts around to Simba's side.
So we're keeping him?
Pfft! Of course.
Who's the brains of this outfit?
Pumbaa lifts Simba in his tusks.
Uhhh...
My point exactly.
[Timon wipes his forehead.] Geez, I'm fried.
Let's get out of here and find some shade.
Pumbaa waddles off, with Timon in his mane and Simba in his tusks.
The scene transitions to the edge of the desert.
Simba lies beside a jungle pool, with Timon and Pumbaa nearby.
Timon splashes water into Simba's face, and Simba wakes up groggily.

You okay, kid?
I guess so.
You nearly died.
Timon gestures to himself.
I saved you.
Pumbaa turns on Timon angrily.

Well, uh, Pumbaa helped.
[Pumbaa beams.] A little.
Simba stands up and walks back toward the desert.
Thanks for your help.
Hey, where you going?
Nowhere.
Timon watches Simba walk away.
Gee, he looks blue.
I'd say brownish-gold.
No, no, no.
I mean he's depressed.
Oh.
Timon and Pumbaa stride after Simba.
Kid, what's eatin' you?
Nothin'.
[Simba halts and sits down.] He's at the top of the food chain.
*laughs* [Timon elbows Simba, who is unresponsive.] The food chain.
[Pumbaa looks on sadly.] Heh, heh.
Ahem.
So, where you from?
Simba stands up and walks away.
Who cares? I can't go back.
Timon bounds in front of Simba.
Ah, you're an outcast.
That's great.
So are we.
Pumbaa sidles up next to Timon.
What'd you do, kid?
Simba sits.
Something terrible.
But I don't want to talk about it.
Timon crosses his arms.
Good.
We don't want to hear about it.
in an aside to Timon] Come on, Timon.
[to Simba] Anything we can do?
Not unless you can change the past.
You know, kid, in times like this, my buddy Timon [Pumbaa nudges Timon.] here says, "You gotta put your behind in your past."
Timon waves his arms.
No, no, no.
Pumbaa puts a hoof to his chin in confusion.
Uh...
I mean...
Amateur.
Lie down before you hurt yourself.
[Pumbaa slumps sadly.] It's "You gotta put your past behind ya." Look, kid, bad things happen, and you can't do anything about it, right?
Right.
Timon pokes Simba in the nose.
Wrong! [Timon gestures dramatically.] When the world turns its back on you, you turn your back on the world!
Well, that's not what I was taught.
Then maybe you need a new lesson.
Repeat after me.
Ahem.
"Hakuna matata."
What?
emphatically] "Hakuna matata." It means "no worries."
Timon dances past Simba.
Pumbaa struts past as well.
Timon sits Simba in a bush, while Pumbaa fans him with a leaf.
Timon and Pumbaa:
Timon tosses the tree bark away.
Hakuna matata?
Yeah.
It's our motto.
What's a motto?
Timon pops up at Simba's side.
Nothin'.
What's-a-motto with you? *laughs*
*laughs* You know, kid, these two words will solve all your problems!
Timon gestures at Pumbaa.
That's right.
Take Pumbaa for example.
[Pumbaa beams.] Why...
[Pumbaa stands in a spotlight.
Pumbaa lifts an arm into the air.
Timon cleans out one ear.
Very nice.
Thanks.
A flashback starts.
Pumbaa's tail bobs through grass as he heads toward a water hole in the distance, around which many animals are gathered.
Pumbaa approaches the water hole and bends to drink.
Pumbaa walks into a spotlight.
Timon gets on his knees, with Simba watching worriedly.
Timon hastily covers Pumbaa's mouth.
Pumbaa! Not in front of the kids.
Pumbaa grins sheepishly.
Oh, sorry.
Simba tilts his head in confusion.
Timon pulls on a vine, lifting Pumbaa into the air on a swing.
Timon and Pumbaa:
A spotlight shines down on Simba.
Timon skids on his knees toward Simba.
Yeah, sing it, kid.
Timon climbs onto Simba's head.
Simba and Timon:
Pumbaa lands next to Simba and Timon, with a spotlight shining on him.
Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa lean against one another.
Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa:
The scene transitions.
Timon lifts a leaf, allowing Simba a view of his and Pumbaa's lush jungle home.
Simba stares in awe.
Welcome to our humble home.
from offscreen] You live here?
from offscreen] We live wherever we want.
Pumbaa leans in front of Simba, blocking his view.
Yep! Home is where your rump rests.
Heh.
It's beautiful!
The scene transitions.
Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa are striding side-by-side through the jungle.
*belches* I'm starved!
I'm so hungry, I could eat a whole zebra.
Timon stops in his tracks.
Ah.
We're fresh out of zebra.
Any antelope?
Timon shakes his head.
Nuh-uh.
with concern] Hippo?
Timon shakes his head.
Nope.
[Timon approaches Simba.] Listen, kid, if you live with us, [Timon gestures to himself.] you have to eat like us.
[Timon strides away.
He approaches a moss-covered log.] Hey, this looks like a good spot to rustle up some grub.
Timon points at the log.
Pumbaa lifts the trunk with his snout, revealing grubs.
Ewww, what's that?
Timon holds up a wriggling worm.
A grub.
What's it look like?
with a disgusted look] Ewww.
Gross!
Timon licks his fingers.
The grub is gone.
Mmm.
Tastes like chicken.
Pumbaa slurps a worm out of the ground.
Simba recoils.
Slimy yet satisfying.
Timon grabs a beetle off a dirt mound.
These are rare delicacies.
Mmm.
[Timon takes a bite out of the beetle.] Piquant, with a very pleasant crunch.
Timon eats the rest of the beetle.
with his mouth full of grubs] You'll learn to love 'em!
Timon strides alongside the log, holding a leaf full of grubs.
He grabs a beetle and adds it to the pile.
I'm telling you, kid, this is the great life.
[Timon sticks his hand in a hole in the log.
Grubs pour out of the opening.] No rules.
No responsibilities.
[Timon hefts a beetle.] Ooh! The little cream-filled kind.
[Timon eats the beetle.
He approaches Simba, still holding the leaf.] And best of all, no worries.
[Timon lifts the leaf into Simba's face.] Well, kid?
Simba hesitantly selects a worm.
Oh, well.
Hakuna matata.
[Simba swallows the worm with some difficulty.
He smacks his jaws in disgust.] Slimy...
[Simba's expression changes to joy.] yet satisfying.
That's it.
The scene transitions to Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa striding across a log.
First, Simba is a cub.
Then he grows into an adolescent.
Finally, he becomes an adult with a full mane.
The scene transitions to Timon and Pumbaa dancing through the jungle.
Timon and Pumbaa:
Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa lean against one another.
Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa:
Timon jumps off a branch into a pool below.
Timon makes a tiny splash.
Pumbaa jumps off the branch into the pool.
Pumbaa makes a tiny splash.
Simba swings on a vine.
It breaks, and he falls into the pool.
Simba makes a giant splash, which washes Timon and Pumbaa ashore.
Simba walks out of the pool, soaking wet.
Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa stride off into the jungle.
The scene transitions to the Pride Lands.
The savanna is barren and gray, and hyenas lounge below Pride Rock.
Oh, Zazu, do lighten up.
[Scar tosses the bone at Zazu.
It hits the cage and bounces off.] Sing something with a little...bounce in it.
Scar sits up abruptly.
No! No! Anything but that...
Scar dances along.
Scar picks up a skull and uses his claws to make its jaw move.
Scar and Zazu:
Oh, I would never have had to do this for Mufasa.
Scar lunges at Zazu, causing him to back away.
What?! What did you say?
Oh, nothing!
You know the law.
[Zazu covers his beak with his wings.] Never, ever mention that name in my presence.
[Scar sticks his muzzle through the bars of the cage.] I am the king!
Zazu is thrown backward by Scar's muzzle.
Yes, sire, you are the king.
I...I...
Well, I only mentioned it to illustrate [Zazu stands.] the differences in your royal managerial approaches.
*laughs nervously*
from offscreen] Hey, boss!
Oh, what is it this time?
Scar strides away from the cage.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed enter Pride Rock.
We got a bone to pick with you.
in an aside to Banzai] I'll handle this.
[to Scar] Scar, there's no food, no water...
Scar rolls his eyes.
Yeah.
It's dinnertime, and we ain't got no stinkin' entrées!
It's the lionesses' job to do the hunting...
Scar makes a helpless facial expression.
Yeah, but they won't go hunt.
Oh, [Scar gestures at Zazu.] eat Zazu.
Zazu waves his wings dramatically.
Oh, you wouldn't want me.
I'd be so tough and gamey and ewww.
*chuckles* Oh, Zazu, don't be ridiculous.
All you need is a little garlic.
in an aside to Shenzi and Ed] I thought things were bad under Mufasa.
Scar jerks around.
What did you say?!
I said, "Muf"...
[Shenzi nudges Banzai.] I said, uh, "Qué pasa?"
Banzai and Shenzi grin innocently.
Good.
Now get out.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed shuffle past Scar.
They pause in the entryway of Pride Rock and look back at Scar.
Yeah, but we're still hungry.
from offscreen] Out!
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed flee.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Ooh!
The scene transitions to the jungle at night.
from offscreen] *belches*
Simba's belch echoes.
Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa lie on their backs in the grass.
Whoa! Nice one, Simba.
Thanks.
Man, I'm stuffed.
Me too.
[Pumbaa rubs his stomach.] I ate like a pig.
Pumbaa, you are a pig.
Oh.
Right.
Simba, Timon, and Pumbaa:

Timon?
Yeah?
Ever wonder what those sparkling dots are up there?
Pumbaa, I don't wonder.
I know.
Oh? What are they?
They're fireflies.
Fireflies that, uh, [Timon gestures vaguely.] got stuck up in that big bluish-black thing.
Oh, gee.
I always thought they were balls of gas burning billions of miles away.
Pumbaa, with you, everything's gas.
Simba, what do you think?
Well, I don't know.
Oh, come on.
Well, come on, Simba.
Give, give, give, give.
Come on.
We told you ours.
Please?
Give, give.
Well, somebody once told me that the Great Kings of the Past are up there, watching over us.
Really?
You mean a bunch of royal dead guys are watching us? Pfft! *laughs*


Who told you something like that?
Yeah, yeah...
What mook made that up?
Yeah.
Pretty dumb, huh?
Oh, you're killing me, Simba.
Yeah...
Simba stares up at the stars, downcast.
Oh.
[After a moment, Simba gets up and leaves.
Timon looks at Pumbaa in confusion.] Was it something I said?
Simba walks to a ledge, his head drooped.
He looks up at the stars, then collapses, sending a shower of milkweed floss into the air.

The scene transitions to the milkweed floss being carried on the wind.
It drifts over Rafiki's tree.
Rafiki catches some in his hand and sniffs it experimentally.
Hmm.
[Rafiki climbs down into the branches of his tree.
He sits and puts the milkweed floss into an empty turtle shell.
He shakes the shell.] *hums* [Rafiki grabs a gourd that is hanging in his tree, breaks it in two, and munches on one half.] Hmm.
[Rafiki ducks down toward the milkweed floss.] Simba? [Rafiki looks at the smeared painting of Simba.] He's...
He's alive? H-He's alive! [Rafiki bounds across the tree.] *laughs* [Rafiki grabs his staff.
He races toward the painting and dips his fingers in red paint.] *laughs* [Rafiki draws a mane on the painting of Simba.] It is time.
The scene transitions to the jungle.
Timon and Pumbaa stride through the foliage, dancing.
A beetle lands in front of Pumbaa and walks off into the foliage.
Pumbaa stops singing and pursues it out of sight.
Pumbaa hums "The Lion Sleeps Tonight" while he stalks the beetle.
It flits away from him.
Huh? [The beetle lands on a nearby log.
Pumbaa drops into a hunter's crouch and attempts to sneak up on it.
The beetle turns around hastily, and Pumbaa hides behind a tree.
The beetle turns back around and climbs over the log.
Pumbaa licks his chops and follows.
There is a sound behind him, which causes him to glance over one shoulder.] Timon? [Behind him, there is a seemingly empty field.
Pumbaa shrugs and climbs over the log.] *grunts*
Pumbaa stares at the beetle.
Behind the beetle, Nala crouches in the field.
The beetle flies away, and Nala wriggles her haunches in anticipation of a hunt.


Nala breaks into a run.

Pumbaa stumbles away in terror.

Pumbaa turns and races away, with Nala in hot pursuit.
She chases him into the jungle.

Pumbaa? [Nala chases Pumbaa around the jungle.
Timon races to Pumbaa's aid.] Pumbaa! Pumbaa! Pumbaa! Pumbaa! [Pumbaa attempts to squeeze under a tree root but gets stuck.
Timon skids to a halt in front of him.] Hey, what's going on?
screaming, with spittle flying] She's gonna eat me!
Timon climbs on top of the tree root.
Huh? [Nala charges toward Pumbaa.] Whoa! [Timon jumps down and pushes on Pumbaa's rump in an attempt to free him.] Jeez, why do I always have to save your...
[Timon turns and stares at Nala in terror.] *screams*
Simba jumps over the log, attacking Nala.

Simba and Nala fight.
Simba and Nala:

From on top of the tree root, Timon pats Pumbaa's rump reassuringly.
Don't worry, buddy, I'm here for you.
Everything's gonna be okay.
Pumbaa looks anxiously over one shoulder.
Huh?
Timon watches Simba and Nala fight.
Get her! Bite her head! Go for the jugular! The jugular! [Timon approaches Pumbaa and points over his shoulder at Simba.] See? I told you he'd come in handy.
Simba and Nala roll through the foliage.
Simba and Nala:

Nala pins Simba, who looks up in sudden recognition.
She glares down at him.

Nala? [Nala stops growling and lets Simba up.
Simba approaches her.] Is it really you?
Who are you?
It's me, Simba.
Simba? [Simba nods excitedly.
Nala's face breaks into a grin.] Whoa!
Whoa!
Simba and Nala nuzzle and bound around one another joyously.
How did you...?
But how did you...? [A confused Timon watches with his mouth wide open.] Who...? Wow!
Where did you come from?
This is gr...
It's great to see ya!
in the background] It's great to see you!
Timon jumps off the tree root and walks toward Simba and Nala.
Hey, what's goin' on here?
to Nala] What are you doing here?
What do you mean what am I doing here? What are you doing here?
Timon stands in-between Simba and Nala.
Hey! What's goin' on here?!
Simba looks down at Timon, as if noticing him for the first time.
Timon, this is Nala.
She's my best friend.
Timon puts his hands on his hips.
Friend?
Yeah.
[Simba looks over one shoulder at Pumbaa.] Hey, Pumbaa, come over here!
Pumbaa wriggles out from under the tree root.
He looks over one shoulder at Simba.
Huh?
Nala, this is Pumbaa.
[Pumbaa approaches Simba, Nala, and Timon.] Pumbaa.
Nala.
Pleased to make your acquiantance.
The pleasure's all mine.
How do you do? [Timon's tone becomes more aggressive.
He holds out his arms on either side.] Whoa, whoa! Timeout.
[Timon makes the sports gesture for timeout.] Let me get this straight.
[Timon puts a hand to his forehead in exasperation.] You know her.
She knows you.
But she wants to eat him.
And everybody's okay with this? [Timon jumps into the air.] Did I miss something?! *pants*
Simba ducks down to Timon's level.
Relax, Timon.
Wait till everyone [Simba lifts his head to meet Nala's gaze.] finds out you've been here all this time.
And your mother...
What will she think?
Simba looks distressed.
S-She doesn't have to know.
Nobody has to know.
Well, of course they do.
Everyone thinks you're dead.
They do?
Yeah.
Scar told us about the stampede.
Simba looks away.
He did? [haltingly] What else did he tell you?
What else matters? You're alive.
And that means...you're the king.
King? Pfft! [Timon approaches Simba and Nala.] Lady, have you got [Timon leans on one of Simba's paws.] your lions crossed.
Nala ducks down to Timon's level.
in awe] King? Your Majesty! [Pumbaa bows to Simba.] I gravel at your feet.
Pumbaa aggressively kisses one of Simba's paws.
Disgusted, Simba pulls his paw away from Pumbaa.
Stop it.
Timon approaches Pumbaa.
It's not "gravel." It's "grovel." And don't! [Timon whacks Pumbaa's snout.] He's not the king.
[Timon glances over one shoulder at Simba.] Are ya?
No!
Simba!
No, I'm not the king! [Simba stands.] Maybe I was gonna be, [Simba strides away.] but that was a long time ago.
Timon puts his hands on his hips.
Let me get this straight.
You're the king? And you never told us?
Simba turns around and strides toward Timon.
Look, I'm still the same guy.
Timon pumps a fist into the air.
But with power!
Nala ducks down to Timon's level.
She smiles patiently.
Could you guys excuse us for a few minutes?
Hey, whatever she has to say, she can say in front of us, [Timon nudges Pumbaa's snout.] right, Simba?
Mmm.
Maybe you'd better go.
Timon stares at Simba in consternation.
He holds up his arms in surrender.
It starts.
You think you know a guy.
Timon and Pumbaa slink away uncertainly.
Pumbaa looks over one shoulder at Simba.

Timon and Pumbaa.
You learn to love 'em.
[Nala walks away with her head bowed.] What? [Simba follows her.] What is it?
It's like you're back from the dead.
[Nala looks at Simba.] You don't know how much this will mean to everyone.
[Nala looks away.] What it means to me.
Hey, it's okay.
Nala nuzzles Simba.
I've really missed you.
I've missed you too.
Simba nuzzles Nala back.
Simba and Nala:

From the foliage, Timon and Pumbaa watch Simba and Nala nuzzle.
*snorts* I tell you, Pumbaa.
This stinks.
Timon swats a leaf out of his face.
He grumpily rests his elbows on a nearby log.
Pumbaa emerges from behind a leaf as well.
Oh, sorry.
Not you.
[Timon gestures to Simba and Nala.] Them! [Simba and Nala stride off into the jungle.] Him, her, [Timon clasps his hands sarcastically.] alone.
What's wrong with that?
Timon crosses his arms.
What?
Who?
Timon holds up two fingers.
Oh.
Timon gestures after Simba and Nala.
Pumbaa follows his gaze.
Meanwhile, Simba and Nala climb down a ridge.
A waterfall flows nearby.
Sally Dworsky:
Simba and Nala pause to drink from a pool.
Simba swings in on a vine and falls into the pool.
Sally Dworsky:
Nala peers out over the pool.
Simba emerges from underwater, grabs Nala, and pulls her in with him.
After a moment, Nala emerges from underwater.

Nala swims back to shore and clambers out of the pool, looking rattled.
Sally Dworsky:

Timon hugs Pumbaa, who pats him consolingly.
Timon and Pumbaa:
The scene transitions.
Simba and Nala cross a log in the jungle.
Isn't this a great place?
It is beautiful.
But I don't understand something.
You've been alive all this time.
Why didn't you come back to Pride Rock?
Well, I just needed to [Simba rests his paws on a series of hanging vines.] get out on my own.
[Simba hops into the vines and lounges in them, as if they're a swing.] Live my own life.
And I did, and it's great!
We've really needed you at home.
No one needs me.
forcefully] Yes, we do.
You're the king.
Nala, we've been through this.
I'm not the king.
Scar is.
Simba, [Nala rests her paws on the vines.] he let the hyenas take over the Pride Lands.
shocked] What?
Everything's destroyed.
There's no food, no water.
[Nala hops back down to the ground.] Simba, if you don't do something soon, everyone will starve.
Simba flops in the vines.
I can't go back.
Why?
Simba hops back down to the ground and strides away.
You wouldn't understand.
What wouldn't I understand?
Simba pauses and looks over one shoulder at Nala.
No, no, no.
It doesn't matter.
Hakuna matata.
Nala tilts her head in confusion.
What?
Hakuna matata.
It's something I learned out here.
[Simba walks past Nala.] Look, sometimes, bad things happen...
Simba!
And there's nothing you can do about it.
[Simba strides away.] So why worry?
Nala hops off the log and pursues Simba.
Because it's your responsibility!
Simba glares down at Nala.
Well, what about you? You left?
passionately] I left to find help! And I found you.
Don't you understand? You're our only hope.
Sorry.
What's happened to you? You're not the Simba I remember.
You're right.
I'm not.
Now are you satisfied?
No.
Just disappointed.
You know, you're starting to sound like my father.
Simba jumps off the log and strides away.
Nala turns to watch him leave.
Good.
At least one of us does.
Simba's expression turns to rage.
He flips around.
Listen! You think you can just show up and tell me how to live my life? You don't even know what I've been through.
Simba turns and stalks off into the jungle.
I would if you'd just tell me.
without turning around] Forget it!
Fine!
Simba stalks into an empty field and begins pacing back and forth.
She's wrong.
I can't go back.
What would it prove anyway? It won't change anything.
You can't change the past.
[Simba pauses and looks up at the night sky.] You said you'd always be there for me! But you're not.
[Simba ducks his head sorrowfully.] And it's because of me.
It's my fault.
It's my fault.
*cries*
Rafiki watches Simba depart.
Simba crosses a log and sits, staring down at his reflection in the water below.
He lies down and keeps staring.

Suddenly, a rock disturbs the water.
Simba looks up in irritation.
Come on.
Will you cut it out?
Rafiki drops from the tree.
Simba turns to leave.
Can't cut it out.
It'll grow right back! *laughs*
Simba strides away.
Creepy little monkey.
[Rafiki catches up with Simba and hobbles alongside him.] Will you stop following me? [Simba halts.] Who are you?
The question is, [Rafiki leans in close.] who are you?
Simba stares, mouth wide open.
He bows his head.
Phew.
I thought I knew.
[Simba looks away.] Now I'm not so sure.
Well, I know who you are.
[Rafiki grabs Simba's ear and tugs him closer.] Shhh.
Come here.
It's a secret.
[Simba leans in close.] Ugh! Enough already! [Simba looks over one shoulder at Rafiki.] What is that supposed to mean anyway?
Rafiki pauses and points at Simba.
It means you're a baboon, [Rafiki gestures to himself.] and I'm not.
[Rafiki leans on his staff.] *laughs*
Simba walks off in the opposite direction.
bemused] I think you're a little confused.
Rafiki materializes in front of Simba and jabs him in the nose.
Simba stops.
Wrong! I'm not the one who's confused.
You don't even know who you are.
Simba stalks off angrily.
Oh, and I suppose you know.
to Simba's back] Sure do.
You're Mufasa's boy.
Simba stops, his mouth wide open in shock.

Simba looks back at Rafiki.
Bye.
Rafiki runs away.
Simba chases after him.
Hey, wait! [Simba runs through the field, over the log, and to the edge of the jungle.
Rafiki sits cross-legged on a rock, eyes closed, meditating.] *pants* You knew my father?
without opening his eyes] Correction: I know your father.
Simba bows his head mournfully.
I hate to tell you this, [Rafiki opens his eyes.] but he died...a long time ago.
Rafiki lifts a hand.
Nope! Wrong again.
[Rafiki darts away from Simba, who stares at him in confusion.] Ha, ha, ha! [Rafiki cavorts to the edge of the jungle, then turns back to face Simba and gestures dramatically.] He's alive! And I'll show him to you.
[Rafiki waves Simba forward.] You follow old Rafiki.
He knows the way.
Come on! [Simba follows Rafiki to the edge of the jungle.
He looks hesitantly over one shoulder, then enters.
He crawls under and over dark, twisting foliage.] Don't dawdle.
[From a tree, Rafiki waves Simba forward.] Hurry up!
Rafiki races away.
Simba scrambles to follow him.
Hey, whoa, wait, wait!
Rafiki pauses.
Come on.
Come on!
Rafiki takes off again.
Simba tears after him.

Rafiki runs through the branches of trees over Simba's head.
Would you slow down?
Simba slips and slides down a ridge.
He hastily gets back up and keeps running.
from offscreen] *cackles*
Rafiki's voice echoes.
Simba runs, bulling his way through vines.

Simba looks up desperately at Rafiki, who is swinging on vines overhead.
*laughs* [Simba continues to run and gets smacked in the face with a branch.
Suddenly, Rafiki appears in front of Simba with his hand outstretched.] Stop! [Simba skids to a halt.
Rafiki puts a finger to his lips.] Shhh.
[Rafiki bounds over to some tall grass and pulls it aside.
He motions with his staff and whispers.] Look down there.
Simba approaches Rafiki, and the two exchange looks.
Simba inhales, then enters a clearing with a pool of water.
He peers down at his reflection, and his expression falls.
*sighs* That's not my father.
[Simba sits up.] That's just my reflection.
Rafiki touches Simba's mane.
No.
[Rafiki points at the water.] Look harder.
[Simba looks back at his reflection, which begins to ripple and warp.] You see? [Mufasa's face replaces Simba's in the water.] He lives in you.
Simba's eyes widen.
from offscreen] Simba.
Simba looks up.
Father?
In the clouds above Simba, Mufasa's ghost strides into view.
Simba, you have forgotten me.
Simba's mane blows in the wind.
His expression is pained.
No.
How could I?
Clouds churn around Mufasa, outlining his head and shoulders.
You have forgotten who you are and so forgotten me.
Look inside yourself, Simba.
[sternly] You are more than what you have become.
You must take your place in the Circle of Life.
How can I go back? I'm not who I used to be.
Light shines behind Mufasa.
Remember who you are.
You are my son, and the one true king.
Simba stares in awe at Mufasa.

Mufasa's head retreats with the clouds.
Remember who you are.
Simba chases the retreating clouds into an open field.
No, please! Don't leave me!
from offscreen] Remember.
Father!
from offscreen] Remember.
Simba slows.
Don't leave me.
from offscreen] Remember.
Simba sits.
The clouds clear overhead.
A breeze stirs Simba's mane.
After a moment, Rafiki approaches from behind Simba.
What was that? Heh, heh! The weather.
Pbbt! Very peculiar, don't you think?
thoughtfully] Yeah.
[Simba looks up.] Looks like the winds are changing.
Rafiki strokes his chin.
Ahh, change is good.
Yeah, but it's not easy.
I know what I have to do, but...going back means I'll have to face my past.
I've been running from it for so long.
[Rafiki smacks Simba with his staff.
Simba rears onto his hind legs and holds his head.] Ow! Jeez! What was that for?
Rafiki spreads his arms wide.
It doesn't matter! It's in the past.
*laughs*
Simba rubs his head.
Yeah, but it still hurts.
Simba lowers his paw and examines it.
Rafiki touches Simba consolingly.
Oh, yes, the past can hurt.
But the way I see it, you can either run from it or learn from it.
[Rafiki tries to hit Simba with his staff again, but Simba ducks.] Ah! You see? [Rafiki puts one hand on his hip.] So what are you going to do?
First, I'm gonna take your stick.
Simba grabs Rafiki's staff in his teeth and tosses it into the grass.
Rafiki runs after his staff.
No, no, no, no, no! Not the stick! [Rafiki grabs his staff.
He turns back.] Hey! Where are you going?
Simba runs off into the grass.
He looks over one shoulder at Rafiki.
I'm going back!
Good! Go on! [Rafiki makes shooing motions.] Get out of here! *laughs* Whoo! *laughs* [Several shooting stars streak by overhead.] Whoo! [Rafiki lifts his staff over his head.] Whoo!
The scene transitions to the jungle.
Timon and Pumbaa are fast asleep.
Pumbaa lies on his back, while Timon rests on Pumbaa's belly.
Timon and Pumbaa:

muttering in his sleep] Grubs, grubs...
Timon and Pumbaa:

Nala approaches and pokes Timon.
Hey.
Hey, wake up.
Timon sleepily lifts his head and looks behind him.
Nala's face is incredibly close to his.

Timon hides behind Pumbaa, who is jolted awake.
Timon and Pumbaa:

It's okay.
It's o...
Whoa! Whoa! It's okay.
It's me.
Timon and Pumbaa:

Timon walks across Pumbaa's snout and belly toward Nala.
Don't ever do that again.
[Timon turns away, holding his forehead in exasperation.] Carnivores.
Oy!
Have you guys seen Simba?
Timon looks back at Nala.
I thought he was with you.
He was, but now I can't find him.
Where is he?
from offscreen] Ho, ho, ho! [Rafiki sits in the branches of a nearby tree.] You won't find him here.
Ha, ha! The king [Rafiki bows.] has returned.
I can't believe it.
[Nala's eyes widen.] He's gone back!
Timon hops off Pumbaa and looks up at Rafiki.
Gone back? What do you mean? [Rafiki has mysteriously disappeared.] Hey! What's goin' on here? [Timon gestures at where Rafiki was sitting.] Who's the monkey?
Simba's gone back to challenge Scar.
Who?
Scar.
Pumbaa tilts his head questioningly.
Who's got a scar?
Nala shakes her head.
No, no, no.
It's his uncle.
The monkey's his uncle?
Pumbaa approaches and sits next to Timon.
No! Simba's gone back to challenge his uncle to take his place as king.
Timon and Pumbaa:
Oooh.
The scene transitions to the desert.
Simba runs across the sand toward the Pride Lands.
He arrives to find that his homeland has become a desolate ruin, with skeletons lying everywhere.
He looks around sadly, then climbs onto a ridge with a full view of Pride Rock.
He glares in its direction.
from offscreen] Simba! [Simba looks over one shoulder.] Wait up! [Nala sidles up next to Simba.] It's awful, isn't it?
I didn't want to believe you.
What made you come back?
I finally got some sense knocked into me, [Simba jerks upward with his chin.] and I've got the bump to prove it.
Besides, this is my kingdom.
[Simba draws himself up to his full height and stares at the Pride Lands.] If I don't fight for it, who will?
Nala approaches.
I will.
Simba looks at Nala.
It's gonna be dangerous.
coyly] Danger? Ha! I laugh in the face of danger.
Ha, ha, ha, ha!
from offscreen] I see [Timon and Pumbaa stand behind Simba and Nala.
Timon's hands are on his hips.] nothing funny about this.
Simba and Nala look over their shoulders at Timon and Pumbaa.
Timon! Pumbaa! What are you doing here?
At your service, my liege.
Pumbaa bows to Simba.
Timon approaches and stares at the Pride Lands in disgust.
Awww.
We're gonna fight your uncle...for this?
Yes, Timon.
This is my home.
Oh.
[out of the corner of his mouth] Talk about your fixer-upper.
[in his normal voice] Well, Simba, if it's important to you, we're with you to the end.
Timon bows to Simba, who smiles down at him fondly.
Simba, Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa stare at Pride Rock in the distance.
Stormclouds gather overhead, and there is a grumble of thunder.
The scene transitions to a rocky area near Pride Rock.
Simba, Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa hide behind a log.
Hyenas block their path, lounging and chewing on bones.
Hyenas.
I hate hyenas.
[whispering] So what's your plan for getting past those guys?
whispering] Live bait.
whispering] Good idea.
[in his normal voice] Hey!
whispering] Come on, Timon.
You guys have to create a diversion.
What do you want me to do, dress in drag and do the hula? [Pumbaa winks at Timon.
The hyenas continue to stalk toward Timon and Pumbaa, with Simba and Nala sneaking past from behind.
Timon and Pumbaa:

The scene transitions.
Simba and Nala slink closer to Pride Rock.
They pause.
Nala, you find my mother and rally the lionesses.
[Nala nods.] I'll look for Scar.
Simba and Nala part ways.
Simba creeps closer to Pride Rock.
Thunder rumbles overhead.
Scar stands atop a boulder near Pride Rock.
Sarabi!
Scar's voice echoes.
Simba peers out from behind a rock.

Sarabi strides through the crowd of hyenas who are gathered below Pride Rock.
They growl and snap at her heels, but she does not flinch.
Simba watches sadly.
Sarabi climbs up to stand in front of Scar.
Yes, Scar?
Where is your hunting party? [Scar paces back and forth in front of Sarabi.] They're not doing their job.
Scar, there is no food.
The herds have moved on.
angrily] No! You're just not looking hard enough.
Scar strides away.
It's over.
There is nothing left.
We have only one choice.
[emphatically] We must leave Pride Rock.
Scar turns back to face Sarabi.
We're not going anywhere.
Then you have sentenced us to death!
Then so be it.
incredulous] You can't do that.
I am the king.
[Scar sits, holding his head high.] I can do whatever I want.
If you were half the king Mufasa was, you would nev...
Scar flips around and backhands Sarabi.
She falls.
I'm ten times the king Mufasa was!
Simba emerges on a high ledge.
Thunder booms, and lightning crashes.

Scar stares in fear as Simba descends the ledge.
Mufasa? No, [Scar backs away.] you're dead.
Simba approaches Sarabi and nudges her gently.
*groans* [Sarabi stares up at Simba.] Mufasa?
No.
It's me.
Sarabi's eyes widen.
Simba! [Sarabi smiles.] You're alive? How can that be?
It doesn't matter.
[Simba bends down and nuzzles Sarabi.] I'm home.
Scar watches Sarabi and Simba in confusion.
Simba? [coyly] Simba! Oh, I'm a little surprised to see you...
[Scar's voice drops, and he looks up pointedly.] alive.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed stand on a ledge above Scar.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed back out of sight.
Simba advances on Scar, furious.
Give me one good reason why I shouldn't rip you apart.
Scar backs away.
Oh, Simba, you must understand.
The pressures of ruling a kingdom...
Scar stops, cornered against Pride Rock.
Are no longer yours.
Step down, Scar.
through nervous laughter] Oh, ye...
Well, I would, naturally.
However, there is one little problem.
You see them? [Scar points up to where legions of hyenas snarl down at Simba.] They think [Scar gestures to himself.] I'm king.
from offscreen] Well, we don't.
[Scar and Simba look at Nala, who stands surrounded by lionesses.
Two help Sarabi stand.] Simba's the rightful king.
The choice is yours, Scar.
Either step down or fight.
Scar strides past Simba.
Oh, must this all end in violence? I'd hate to be responsible for the death of a family member.
[Scar looks over one shoulder at Simba.] Wouldn't you agree, Simba?
That's not gonna work, Scar.
I've put it behind me.
Scar strides toward the lionesses.
But what about your faithful subjects? Have they put it behind them?
Scar grins at the lionesses.
Sarabi stares back stonily, while Nala looks troubled.
Simba, what is he talking about?
Scar circles Simba.
Ah, so you haven't told them your little secret.
Well, Simba, now's your chance to tell them.
[Scar paces past the lionesses.] Tell them who is responsible for Mufasa's death.
Nala and Sarabi look expectantly at Simba, who steps forward.
I am.
Nala and Sarabi stare at Simba in horror.
It's not true.
Tell me it's not true.
It's true.
You see? He admits it? [Lightning flashes behind Scar.
Thunder booms.] Murderer!
No, it was an accident!
Scar circles Simba rapidly.
If it weren't for you, Mufasa would still be alive.
It's your fault he's dead! Do you deny it?
No.
Then you're guilty.
with wide eyes] No, I'm not a murderer!
Scar backs Simba toward the promontory of Pride Rock, with hyenas fanned out behind him.
Oh, Simba, you're in trouble again.
But this time, Daddy isn't here to save you.
And now everyone knows why!
Scar lunges at Simba, who slips and barely catches on to the ledge.
Simba!
Lightning strikes the foliage below Pride Rock, setting it ablaze.
Simba dangles from the promontory, while Scar looms over him.
Now, this looks familiar.
[Scar holds a claw to his face in mock contemplation.] Hmm.
[Simba struggles to hold on, hanging only by his paws.] Where have I seen this before? Let me think.
Hmm.
[in mock realization] Oh, yes! I remember.
This is just the way your father looked before he died.
[Simba nearly loses his grip.
Scar sinks his claws into Simba's paws.] And here's my little secret.
[Scar leans in close to whisper in Simba's ear.] I killed Mufasa.
Simba's eyes widen.
A flashback starts.
Mufasa falls to his death.
Young Simba stares in horror from atop the gorge.
No! [Young Simba's voice warps into adult Simba's voice.
The flashback ends.
Simba leaps up Pride Rock and pins Scar.] Murderer!
The lionesses stare in alarm.
No, Simba, please.
Tell them the truth.
Truth? But truth is in the eye of the beho...
[Simba presses a paw to Scar's throat, choking him.
Scar speaks in a croak.] All right.
All right! [whispering] I did it.
So they can hear you.
in a louder voice] I killed Mufasa!
The lionesses lunge into battle.
The hyenas swarm Simba, knocking him off Scar.
The lionesses attack the hyenas from behind.
Simba fights off the hyenas from the ground, while Nala swats one away with her paw.
Timon and Pumbaa charge into the fray.
Timon and Pumbaa:
Hee-yah!
Timon and Pumbaa cut through the hyenas, with a bowling pins sound effect.
Excuse me! Pardon me! Comin' through! Hot stuff! [Timon hops off Pumbaa.] Whoo!
Pumbaa kicks away a hyena.
Timon and Pumbaa look left and right, braced for action.
Timon and Pumbaa:

Timon and Pumbaa charge off.
Simba runs away from a hyena, who nips him from behind.
Several hyenas attack him, including one who jumps on him from a high ledge and begins biting his mane.

A stick hits the hyena on the head, knocking it away.
Simba looks up questioningly.
Rafiki, standing on a high ledge, holds his staff over his head.

Rafiki jumps down in the middle of several hyenas, hefting his staff over his head like it's a sword.
The hyenas charge at Rafiki one by one.

Rafiki kicks several hyenas away.
*ninja noises* [Rafiki beats back two hyenas with his staff.
One attempts to attack him from behind, but, without turning around, Rafiki punches it in the face.] Yow!
The battle continues, with the lionesses fighting the hyenas atop Pride Rock while a fire rages on in the background.
Many hyenas flee out of sight.
The scene transitions.
Banzai chases Timon.

Banzai chases Timon into Pride Rock.
from within his bone cage] Let me out! Let me out!
Timon clambers into the cage next to Zazu.
Let me in! Let me in!
Shenzi and Banzai surround the cage, licking their chops.
Shenzi and Banzai:

Timon clings to Zazu.
He lets go and clasps his hands pleadingly.
Please, don't eat me.
from offscreen] Drop 'em!
Shenzi and Banzai look up in surprise.
Pumbaa stands in the entrance of the cave, clearly disgruntled.
Hey! Who's the pig?
Are you talkin' to me?
Uh-oh.
They called him a pig.
Are you talking to me?
Shouldn't have done that.
shouting] Are you talking to me?!
Now they're in for it.
They call me Mr.
Pig.
[Pumbaa charges at Shenzi and Banzai.] Aaah!
Ed stands outside Pride Rock.
The ground shakes, with rocks falling around him.
from offscreen] Take that, you stupid...
from offscreen] Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow, ow!
from offscreen] Take that and that!
from offscreen] Keep at 'em! Keep at 'em!
from offscreen] Ow! Ooh! Whoo, baby!
Shenzi and Banzai flee the cave, running into Ed.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed charge off.
from offscreen] Whoo!
Timon, Pumbaa, and Zazu emerge from the cave.
Run, ya yellow-belly!
Timon, Pumbaa, and Zazu:
chanting] Whoo! Whoo! Whoo! Whoo!
The scene transitions.
Simba runs along the edge of Pride Rock.
He spots Scar slinking away.
Scar pauses, looking back at Simba.
There is a clap of thunder and a flash of lightning.
Simba chases after Scar, who flees up Pride Rock.
*snarls* [Scar leaps over flames.
He runs to the peak of Pride Rock and skids to a stop at the edge, sending rocks pattering to the ground below.
He looks over one shoulder.
Simba leaps over the flames to join him at the top of Pride Rock.] *roars* [Simba stalks slowly toward Scar.] *growls* Murderer.
Simba, Simba, please.
[Scar crouches.] Please, have mercy.
I beg you.
You don't deserve to live.
hyperventilating] But, Simba, [through labored breaths] I am [Scar crouches lower and smiles shakily.] family.
[Scar stands up straight.] It's the hyenas who are the real enemy.
[Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed listen to Scar's betrayal from behind the flames.] It was their fault.
It was their idea.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed back away.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed:

Simba stalks closer to Scar.
Why should I believe you? [Scar crouches lower as Simba gets closer.] Everything you ever told me was a lie.
Simba looms over Scar.
What are you going to do? [Scar grins.] You wouldn't kill your own uncle...
glowering] No, Scar.
I'm not like you.
Oh, Simba, thank you.
You are truly noble.
I'll make it up to you, I promise.
[Scar stands.] And, uh, how can I prove myself to you? [Scar gestures definitively.] Tell me, I mean, anything.
Run.
[Scar's face falls.] Run away, Scar.
And never return.
haltingly] Yes.
[Scar slinks past Simba, who glares at him.] Of course.
As you wish, [Scar eyes some burning embers at his paws.] Your Majesty!
Scar flings the embers into Simba's eyes.
Simba recoils.

Scar leaps on Simba.

Scar and Simba wrestle on the ground.
Scar and Simba:

In slow motion, Scar and Simba lunge at each other, battering with their paws.
Scar strikes Simba in the shoulder.

Simba hits Scar in the face.

Scar hits Simba in the face.

The slow motion stops as Scar hits Simba again, this time knocking him to the ground.
Simba looks up.
In slow motion, Scar leaps toward Simba.

The slow motion stops as Simba uses Scar's momentum to kick him away and send him flying off Pride Rock.

Scar tumbles down Pride Rock and lands in a heap.
Simba looks over the edge.
Scar weakly sits up.
Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed emerge through the flames.
*pants* Ah, my friends!
Scar stands.
through half-laughter] Friends? [to Banzai] I thought he said we were the enemy.
Banzai grins at Shenzi.
Yeah.
[Scar's eyes widen in fear.] That's what I heard.
Shenzi and Banzai look at Ed.
Shenzi and Banzai:
Ed?

Ed licks his chops.
More hyenas surround and close in on Scar.

Scar backs toward Pride Rock.
No.
Let...
No.
L-L-Let me explain.
No, you don't understand! No, I didn't mean...
[Scar flinches away from the advancing hyenas.] No! No! Look, I'm sorry I called you...
No! No!
The shadows of the hyenas pounce on Scar.
Flames rise around Pride Rock.
Rain begins to fall, extinguishing the fire.
Timon and Pumbaa emerge through the smoke.
Simba descends Pride Rock.
Zazu stands on a nearby rock and, as Simba passes, bows.
A lioness rubs against Simba.
Simba exchanges nuzzles with Sarabi, then Nala.
There is a clatter of gourds, which makes Simba, Nala, and Sarabi look up.
Rafiki stands near Pride Rock.
He gestures to the promontory.
Simba approaches Rafiki, who bows.
Simba draws Rafiki into a hug, and, after a moment, Rafiki returns it.
He then grips Simba by the shoulders.
It is time.
Simba walks toward the promontory of Pride Rock.
Sarabi and Nala watch from below.
Simba begins to ascend the promontory.
Zazu watches in awe.
Timon and Pumbaa do likewise.
The rain washes away an animal skull.
As Simba reaches the edge of the promontory, he stops and looks up at the stars.
The clouds part.
from offscreen] Remember.
Simba's expression changes to confidence.
He musters himself.



The scene transitions to Pride Rock in the rain.
 ♪ Is'khathi sifikile.
Is'khathi sifikile.
[Elephants trumpet.
Zebras bray.] Busa Simba.
Busa Simba.
Ubuse ngo xolo.
Ubuse ngo thando.
[Many animals gather below Pride Rock.
Simba, Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa gaze over the crowd from the promontory.] Ubuse ngo xolo.
Ubuse ngo thando.
Ubuse ngo xolo.
[Birds fly around Simba, Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa.] Ingonyama nengw' enamabala.
Ingonyama nengw' enamabala.
[Zazu flies around Simba, Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa.] Till we find our place [Timon climbs to the end of Pumbaa's snout and shakes his arms in victory.] on the path unwinding [Simba and Nala nuzzle.
Rafiki emerges, cradling a newborn cub.] in the Circle, [The cub turns and blinks open its eyes.] the Circle of Life.
[Rafiki exchanges glances with Simba and Nala, then lifts the cub high.] Circle of Life! ♪ 