The Lion KingIn the Pride Lands of Africa, a lion ruled over the animals as a king.
The birth of King Mufasa
and Queen Sarabi’s son Simba created envy and resentment in Mufasa’s younger brother, Scar,
who knew his nephew now replaced him as heir to the throne.
After Simba had grown into ayoung cub, Mufasa gave him a tour of the Pride Lands, teaching him the responsibilities ofbeing a king and the Circle of Life.
Later that day, Scar tricked Simba and his best friend Nalainto exploring a forbidden ele
phant graveyard, despite the protests of Mufasa’s hornbill
majordomo Zazu.
At the graveyard, three spotted hyenas named Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed attackthe cubs before Mufasa, alerted by Zazu, saved them and forgave Simba for his actions.
Thatnight, the hyenas, who were allied with Scar, plot with him to kill Mufasa and Simba.The next day Scar lured Simba to a gorge and told him to wait there while he got Mufasa.
On
Scar’s orders, the hyenas stampeded a large herd of wildebeest into the gorge.
Mufasa savedSimba, but as Mufasa tried to climb up the gorge’s walls, Scar threw him back into thestampede, where he was trampled to death.
After Simba found Mufasa’s body, Scar convincedhim he was responsible for his father’s death and advised Simba to flee the kin
gdom.
As Simbaleft, Scar ordered Shenzi, Banzai, and Ed to kill the cub, but Simba escaped.
That night, Scarannounced to the pride that both Mufasa and Simba were killed in the stampede and steppedforward as the new king, allowing a pack of hyenas to live in the Pride Lands.After running far away, Simba collapsed from exhaustion in a desert.
Timon and Pumbaa, ameerkat and a warthog, found him and nursed him back to health.
Simba subsequently grewup with them in the jungle, living a carefree life with
his friends under the motto “HakunaMatata” (“no worries” in Swahili).
When he was a young adult, Simba saved Timon and
Pumbaa from a hungry lioness, who turned out to be Nala.
She and Simba reconciled and fell inlove.
Nala urged Simba to return home, telling him the Pride Lands had become a wasteland
with not enough food and water.
Feeling guilty over his father’s death, Simba refused and
stormed off, leaving Nala disappointed and angry.
As Simba exited the jungle, he encountered
Mufasa’s mandrill friend and advisor, Rafiki.
Rafiki told Simba that Mufasa was “alive” and took
him to a pond.
There Simba was visited by the ghost of Mufasa in the sky, who told him he tookhis rightful place as the king of the Pride Lands.
Simba realized he could no longer run from hispast and went home.
Nala, Timon, and Pumbaa joined him and agreed to help him.