The badger is an animal with short legs, wide feet with long claws, and strong jaws, that lives underground and comes out to feed at night. There are six main types of badger. Most have narrow faces, heads with light and dark hair, and brown or grey hair on their bodies.

The ant is a very small insect that lives under the ground in large and well-organized social groups.

The alpaca is a South American animal with a long neck and long hair that looks like a llama.

The armadillo is a small animal whose body is covered in hard strips that allow it to roll into a ball when attacked.

The barnacle is a small sea creature with a shell, that sticks very tightly and in large numbers to rocks and the bottom of boats.

The bat is a small animal like a mouse with wings that flies at night.

The beaver is an animal with smooth fur, sharp teeth, and a large, flat tail. Beavers build dams (= walls of sticks and earth) across rivers.

The bee is a yellow and black flying insect that makes honey and can sting you.

The bison is a large wild animal, similar to a cow but having a larger head and shoulders covered in hair, found in North America and Europe. The North American bison is also called a buffalo.

The boa is a large, strong snake, found in South and Central America, that kills animals and birds by wrapping itself around them and crushing them.

The bullfrog is a large North American frog that makes a loud, deep, rough noise.

The baboon is a type of large monkey, found in Africa and Asia, with a long, pointed face like a dog and large teeth.

The bobcat a North American wild animal of the cat family with brown hair, pointed ears, and a short tail.

The buffalo is a large animal of the cattle family, with long, curved horns.

The centipede is a small, long, thin animal with many legs.

The chamois is a small animal like a goat that lives in the mountains of Europe and southwestern Asia.

The cockroach is a flat, brown or black insect sometimes found in the home.

The llama is a large South American animal with a long neck and long hair, often kept for its meat, milk, or fur and to carry heavy loads.

The dog is a common animal with four legs, especially kept by people as a pet or to hunt or guard things.

The cat is a small animal with fur, four legs, a tail, and claws, usually kept as a pet or for catching mice.

The lion is a large wild animal of the cat family with yellowish-brown fur that lives in Africa and southern Asia.

The tiger is a large wild animal of the cat family with yellowish-orange fur with black lines that lives in parts of Asia.

The rabbit is a small animal with long ears and large front teeth that moves by jumping on its long back legs, or the meat of this animal eaten as food.

The earwig is a small insect with two pincers (= curved pointed parts) at the back end of its body.

The eel is a long, thin, snake-like fish, some types of which are eaten.

The elk is a large deer with brownish-red fur and large antlers (= horns like branches) that lives in the forests of North America.

The falcon is a bird with pointed wings and a long tail, that can be trained to hunt other birds and small animals.

The firefly is an insect that is active during the night and whose tail produces light.

The flea is a very small jumping insect that feeds on the blood of animals and humans.

The ferret a small, yellowish-white animal with a long body, bred for hunting rabbits and other small animals.

The goldfish is a small, shiny, gold or orange fish that is often kept as a pet in a bowl or garden pool.

The gopher is a North American animal that lives in holes that it makes in the ground.

The gibbon is a small ape with long arms that lives in trees in the forests of South Asia.

The halibut is a big, flat sea fish that can be eaten.

The herring is a long, silver-coloured fish that swims in large groups in the sea, or its flesh eaten as food.

The haddock is a fish that can be eaten, found in the North Atlantic Ocean.

The horse is a large animal with four legs that people ride on or use for carrying things or pulling vehicles.

The housefly is a small fly often found in houses.

The heron is a large bird with long legs, a long neck and grey or white feathers that lives near water.

The hoopoe is an orange-pink bird found in Africa, Asia, and Europe, with a beak that curves downwards, a large crest (= feathers that stand up on its head) and black and white wings and tail.

The hornbill is a bird with a large, curved, often brightly coloured beak, found in tropical and subtropical areas.

The horsefly is any of various large flying insects that bite horses, cattle, and sometimes people.

The jackal is a wild animal like a dog that lives in Africa and southern Asia and eats animals that have died or been killed by others.

The lizard is a small reptile that has a long body, four short legs, a long tail, and thick skin.

The lynx is a wild animal of the cat family that has brown hair, sometimes with dark spots on it, pointed ears, and a short tail.

The macaque is a medium-sized monkey from Africa or Asia, with a long face and pouches (= spaces) inside its cheeks for holding food.

The mallard a wild duck that is common in Europe and North America.

The marmoset is a very small monkey from the tropical forests of South and Central America that has large eyes, thick fur, a long tail covered in hair, and long nails.

The mole is a small mammal that is almost blind, has dark fur, and lives in passages that it digs underground.

The mongrel is a dog whose parents are of different breeds.

The mosquito is a small flying insect that bites people and animals and sucks their blood.

The muntjac is a type of small deer from Southeast Asia that is now also found in some European countries.

The maggot is a creature like a very small worm that is found in decaying meat and other foods and later develops into a fly.

The marmot is a type of large squirrel that lives in mountain areas of Europe, North America, northwest Asia, Pakistan and India.

The mastiff is a large, strong dog with short hair.

The husky is a large dog with long thick fur, used for pulling sledges over the snow.

The hare is an animal like a large rabbit that can run very fast and has long ears.

The goat is an animal related to sheep that usually has horns and a beard. Goats live wild on mountains or are kept on farms to provide milk, meat, wool.

The sheep is a farm animal with thick wool that eats grass and is kept for its wool, skin, and meat.

The cow is a large female farm animal kept to produce meat and milk.

The pig is a large pink, brown, or black farm animal with short legs and a curved tail, kept for its meat.

The parrot is a tropical bird with a curved beak, often kept as a pet and trained to copy the human voice.

The bear is a large, strong wild mammal with a thick fur coat that lives especially in colder parts of Europe, Asia, and North America.

The collie any of several breeds of dog with long hair that are bred for controlling sheep.

The chinchilla is a small South American animal that can be kept as a pet and has very soft, pale grey fur.

The cicada is a large insect found in warm countries that produces a high continuous sound.

The coati is a small animal with a long nose and a long tail with dark rings around it, found mainly in Central and South America.

The cuckoo is a grey bird with a two-note call that sounds similar to its name. Cuckoos lay their eggs in other birds' nests.

The dalmatian is a big dog with short, white fur and dark spots.

The eagle is a large, strong bird with a curved beak that eats meat and can see very well.

The beetle is an insect with a hard shell-like back.

The bird is a creature with feathers and wings, usually able to fly.

The butterfly is a type of insect with large, often brightly coloured wings.

The chinook is a fish that is a large type of salmon (= fish that live both in the sea and in rivers, and swim up rivers to produce their eggs).

The insect is a type of very small animal with six legs, a body divided into three parts and usually two pairs of wings, or, more generally, any similar very small animal.

The cayman is an animal similar to an alligator.

The caribou is a large North American reindeer.

The reindeer is a type of deer with large horns that lives in the northern parts of Europe, Asia, and North America.

The carp is a large fish that lives in lakes and rivers and can be eaten.

The caterpillar is a small, long animal with many legs that feeds on the leaves of plants, and develops into a butterfly or moth.

The bull is a male cow, or the male of particular animals such as the elephant or the whale.

The rooster is an adult male chicken.

The chicken is a type of bird kept on a farm for its eggs or its meat, or the meat of this bird that is cooked and eaten.

The piranha is a dangerous fish that lives in South American rivers, has sharp teeth, and eats meat.

The turkey is a large bird grown for its meat on farms.

The crow is a large, black bird with a loud, unpleasant cry.

The ape is an animal like a large monkey with no tail, that uses its arms to move through trees.

The monkey is an animal that lives in hot countries, has a long tail, and climbs trees. Monkeys are primates (= the group of animals that are most like humans).

The pigeon is a large, usually grey bird that is often seen in towns sitting on buildings in large groups, and is sometimes eaten as food.

The cod is a large sea fish that can be eaten, or the meat of this fish.

The gecko is a small lizard with wide feet, found especially in warm countries.

The spider is a small creature with eight thin legs that catches insects in a web (= a net made from sticky threads).

The cobra is a poisonous snake from Africa and southern Asia that makes itself look bigger and more threatening by spreading the skin at the back of its head.

The hamster is a small animal covered in fur with a short tail and large spaces in each side of its mouth for storing food. Hamsters are often kept as pets.

The seal is a large mammal that eats fish and lives partly in the sea and partly on land or ice.

The leopard is a large wild cat that has yellow fur with black spots on it and lives in Africa and southern Asia.

The cheetah is a wild animal of the cat family, with yellowish-brown fur and black spots, that can run faster than any other animal.

The crab is a sea creature with five pairs of legs and a round, flat body covered by a shell, or its flesh eaten as food.

The mouse is a small mammal with short fur, a pointed face, and a long tail.

The rat is a small rodent, larger than a mouse, that has a long tail and is considered to be harmful.

The squirrel is a small animal covered in fur with a long tail. Squirrels climb trees and feed on nuts and seeds.

The reptile is an animal that produces eggs and uses the heat of the sun to keep its blood warm.

The alligator is a large reptile with a hard skin that lives in and near rivers and lakes in the hot, wet parts of America and China. It has a long nose that is slightly wider and shorter than that of a crocodile.

The crocodile is a large reptile with a hard skin that lives in and near rivers and lakes in hot, wet parts of the world. It is like an alligator, but it usually has a longer and narrower nose.

The chipmunk is a small North American animal with fur and dark stripes along its back.

The whale is a very large sea mammal that breathes air through a hole at the top of its head.

The duck is a bird that lives by water and has webbed feet (= feet with skin between the toes), a short neck, and a large beak.

The zebra is an African wild animal that looks like a horse, with black or brown and white lines on its body.

The goose is a large water bird similar to a duck but larger, or the meat from this bird.

The donkey is an animal like a small horse with long ears.

The panda is a large, black and white mammal that lives in forests in China. Pandas eat bamboo.

The elephant is a very large grey mammal that has a trunk (= long nose) with which it can pick things up.

The dolphin is a sea mammal that is large, smooth, and grey, with a long, pointed mouth.

The salamander is a small animal that looks like a lizard but has soft skin and lives both on land and in water.

The raccoon is a small North American animal with black marks on its face and a long tail with black rings on it.

The penguin is a black and white bird that cannot fly but uses its small wings to help it swim.

The polar bear is a bear with white fur that lives in the Arctic.

The walrus is a mammal that lives in the sea and on beaches in the Arctic. It is similar to a seal but larger, with two tusks and long hairs growing near its mouth.

The jellyfish is a sea creature with a soft, oval, almost transparent body.

The giraffe is a large African animal with a very long neck and long legs.

The ostrich is a very large bird from Africa that cannot fly.

The wolf is a wild animal of the dog family.

The deer is a quite large animal with four legs that eats grass and leaves. The male has antlers (= wide horns like branches). The female is called a hind or a doe and the male a stag or buck.

The antelope is a mammal like a deer with horns and long, thin legs that allow it to run very fast.

The catfish is a fish with a flat head and long hairs around its mouth that lives in rivers or lakes.

The fish is an animal that lives in water, is covered with scales, and breathes by taking water in through its mouth, or the flesh of these animals eaten as food.

The chipmunk is a small North American animal with fur and dark stripes along its back.

The cockapoo is a type of dog that is a cross (= a mixture) between a cocker spaniel and a poodle.

The coyote a small wild animal like a dog that lives in North America.

The cricket is a brown or black insect that makes short, loud noises by rubbing its wings together.

The fox is a wild mammal belonging to the dog family that has a pointed face and ears, a wide tail covered in fur, and often reddish-brown fur.

The camel is a large animal with a long neck, that lives in the desert and has one or two humps (= large raised areas of flesh) on its back.

The gorilla is a large ape that comes from western Africa.

The toad is a small, brown animal, similar to a frog, that has big eyes and long back legs for swimming and jumping.

The quail is a small, brown bird that is shot for sport or food, or the meat of this bird.

The moose is a type of large deer with large, flat horns and a long nose that lives in the forests of North America, northern Europe, and Asia.

The cougar is a large, brown wild cat that lives in North and South America.

The platypus is an Australian river mammal with a wide beak whose young are born from eggs.

The octopus is a sea creature with a soft, oval body and eight tentacles (= long parts like arms).

The anaconda is a large South American snake that curls around a live animal and crushes it to kill it for food.

The osprey is a large bird of prey that eats fish.

The poodle is a dog with curly hair that is usually cut short, except on its head, tail, and legs.

The skunk is a small, black and white North American animal that makes a strong, unpleasant smell as a defence when it is attacked.

The jaguar is a large wild animal of the cat family that lives in Central and South America.

The tortoise is an animal with a thick, hard shell that it can move its head and legs into for protection. It eats plants, moves very slowly, and sleeps during the winter.

The hedgehog is a small, brown mammal with a covering of sharp spines on its back.

The iguana is a large greyish-green lizard of tropical America.

The flamingo is a large bird with pink feathers, long, thin legs, a long neck, and a beak that curves down.

The worm is a small animal with a long, narrow, soft body without arms, legs, or bones.

The frog is a small animal that has smooth skin, lives in water and on land, has long powerful back legs with which it jumps from place to place, has no tail, and is usually greenish-brown in colour.

The lobster is an animal that lives in the sea and has a long body covered with a hard shell, two large claws, and eight legs, or its flesh when used as food.

The swordfish is a large, long fish that is often eaten as food, with a very long pointed part like a beak at the front of its head.

The mackerel is a sea fish with a strong taste, often used as food.

The bonito is a type of small tuna (= a large fish that lives in warm seas).

The trout is a fish that lives in rivers and lakes, or lives in the sea but returns to rivers to produce its eggs, that is a popular food.

The chimpanzee is a small, very intelligent African ape with black or brown fur.

The kangaroo is a large Australian mammal with a long stiff tail, short front legs and long powerful back legs on which it moves by jumping.

The porcupine is an animal with a covering of long, sharp quills (= stiff hairs like needles) on its back.

The hyena is a wild animal from Africa and Asia that looks like a dog, hunts in groups, and makes a sound similar to a human laugh.

The ibex is a type of wild mountain goat.

The ibis is a large bird with long legs and a long, downward-curving beak, that walks around in water to find its food.

The kiwi is a New Zealand bird, with a long beak and feathers like hairs, that cannot fly and that is the national symbol of New Zealand.

The kestrel is a type of small falcon (= a bird that hunts other birds and animals).

The krill are very small animals with a hard outer shell that live in the sea and are eaten in large numbers by some types of whale.
 
The ladybug a small beetle that is round and typically red with black spots.

The leech is a type of worm that lives in wet places and fastens itself onto the bodies of humans and animals to feed on their blood.

The hippopotamus is a very large animal with short legs and thick, dark grey skin that lives near water in Africa.

The rhinoceros is a very large, thick-skinned animal from Africa or Asia that has one or two horns on its nose.

The raven is the largest bird in the crow family, with shiny black feathers.

The possum is a small marsupial found in Australia and New Zealand that lives in trees and has thick fur and a long nose and tail.

The koala is an Australian mammal with greyish fur. Koalas live in eucalyptus trees and eat their leaves.

The swan is a large, usually white bird with a long neck that lives on rivers and lakes.

Acidulation is the process of making something acid or sour with lemon or lime juice.

Aerate is the process when dry ingredients pass through a sifter and air is circulated through, changing the composition of the material, often referring to flour.

Aspic is a dish in which ingredients are set into a gelatine made from a meat stock or consommé.

Barding is to cover a meat with a layer of fat, such as bacon, before cooking, effectively maintaining the moisture of the meat while it cooks to avoid overcooking.

Baste is to pour juices or melted fat over meat or other food while cooking to keep it moist.

Bisque is a thick, creamy soup, with a base of strained broth (see coulis) of shellfish or game.

Blanching is to plunge into boiling water, remove after moment, and then plunge into iced water to halt the cooking process, usually referring to vegetable or fruit.

Braising is a combination-cooking method that first sears the food at high temperature, then finished it in a covered pot at low temperature while sitting in some amount of liquid.

Brining is the process of soaking meat in a brine, or heavily salted water, before cooking, similar to marination.

Chiffonade is shredded or finely cut vegetables and herbs, usually used as a garnish for soup.

Concasse is to roughly chop raw or cooked food by peeling, seeding, and chopping to make it ready to be served or combined with other ingredients, usually referring to tomatoes.

Consommé is a type of clear soup made from richly flavored stock that has been clarified, a process of using egg whites to remove fat.

Confit is meat cooked slowly in its own fat, usually referring to duck.

Coring is to remove the central section of some fruits, which contain seeds and tougher material that is not usually eaten.

Coulis is a thick sauce made with fruit or vegetable puree, used as a base or garnish.

Croquette is a small round roll of minced meat, fish, or vegetable coated with egg and breadcrumbs.

Deglaze is to remove and dissolve the browned food residue, or "glaze", from a pan to flavor sauces, soups, and gravies.

Degrease is to remove the fat from the surface of a hot liquid such as a sauce, soup, or stew, also known as defatting or fat trimming.

Dredging is to coat wet or moist foods with a dry ingredient before cooking to provide an even coating.

Dress is to put oil, vinegar, salt, or other toppings on a salad or other food.

Effiler is to remove the string from a string bean or to thinly slice almonds.

Emincer is to slice thinly, similar to julienne style, but not as long.

Escabeche is a dish consisting of fish marinated for approximately one day in a sauce of olive oil, vinegar, herbs, vegetables, and spices, and then poached or fried and allowed to cool.

Fillet is a boneless piece of meat, poultry, or fish; the French version, spelled as "filet," is also used when referencing a cut of beef that is boneless, such as filet mignon.

Flambe is the process of adding alcohol such as brandy, cognac, or rum to a hot pan to create a burst of flames.

Frenching is the process of removing all fat, meat, and cartilage from rib bones on a rack roast by cutting between the bones with a sharp paring knife, often referring to lamb, beef, or pork rib.

Galantine is a Polish dish of de-boned stuffed meat that is poached in gelatin stock, pressed, and served cold with aspic or its own jelly.

Galette is flat, round cakes of pastry, often topped with fruitor a food prepared in served in the shape of a flat round cake, such as "a galette of potatoes".

Gazpacho is a Spanish dish of cold, uncooked soup, which typically contain tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, garlic, oil, and vinegar.

Harissa is a spicy, aromatic chile paste made from a variety of hot peppers and spices, often used in North African and Middle Eastern cooking.

Infusion is the process of extracting chemical compounds or flavors from a vegetable in water, oil, or alcohol, by allowing the material to remain suspended in the liquid over time, also known as steeping.

Involtini is food such as meat, poultry, seafood, or vegetables, wrapped around a filling such as cheese, cured meats, or nuts.

Irradiation is the process of exposing food to radiation, designed to eliminate disease-causing germs from foods.

Isinglass is a pure, transparent form of gelatin, obtained from the bladders of certain fish, used in jellies as a clarifying agent.

Jacquarding is the process of poking holes into the muscle of meat in order to tenderize it, also known as needling.

Jeroboam is an oversize wine bottle holding about three liters.

Kipper is a whole herring that has been split into a butterfly fashion from tail to head, gutted, salted, or pickled.

Kirsch is a fragrant, colorless, unaged brandy distilled from fermented cherries , used with fondue.

Lactobacillus is a bacterium usually found in fermenting products, such as yogurts.

Larding is the process of inserting strips of fat into a piece of meat that doesn't have as much fat, to melt and keep the meat from drying out.

Liaison is a binding agent of cream and egg yolks used to thicken soups or sauces.

Macerate is the process of softening or breaking into pieces using liquid, often referring to fruit or vegetables, in order to absorb the flavor of the liquid.

Marinate is the process of soaking foods in seasoned and acidic liquid before cooking for hours or days, adding flavor to the food.

Mesclun is a salad consisting of tender mixed greens such as lettuce, arugula, and chicory, herbs, and edible flowers.

Mignonette is roughly cracked or coarsely ground peppercorns, used for au poivre dishes or for mignonette sauce, which contains vinegar and shallots as well and is often used for oysters.

Mince is to finely divide food into uniform pieces smaller than diced or chopped foods, prepared using a chef's knife or food processor.

Nappe is the ability of a liquid to coat the back of a spoon or the act of coating a food, such as a leg of lamb, with glaze.

Needling is injecting fat or flavors into an ingredient to enhance its flavor.

Nutraceutical is used to describe food that provides health or medical benefits as well as nutritional value, also known as functional food.

Oeuf is the French term for egg.

Ort is a scrap or morsel of food left over after a meal.

Ouzo is an anise-flavored, strong, colorless liquor from Greece.

Parboiling is the process of adding foods to boiling waters, cooking until they are softened, then removing before they are fully cooked, usually to partially cook an item which will then be cooked another way.

Parcooking is the process of not fully cooking food, so that it can be finished or reheated later.

Pâté is a mixture of seasoned ground meat and fat minced into a spreadable paste.

Paupiette is a thin, flattened piece of meat, rolled with a stuffing of vegetables or fruits, which is then cooked before served.

Persillade is a sauce or seasoning mixture of parsley chopped with seasonings, often used as part of a saute cook's mise en place.

Polenta is a mush or porridge made from yellow or cornmeal which originated in Northern Italy.

Praline is a confection of nuts cooked in boiling sugar until brown and crisp.

Quadriller is to make criss-cross lines on the surface of food, as part of food presentation.

Quenelle is a small quantity of a mixture of creamed fish or meat with a light egg binding, usually formed into a round shape, and then cooked.

Remouillage is a stock made from bones that have already been used once to make a stock, making it weaker.

Render is to cook the fat out of something, such as bacon.

Rondeau is a wide, shallow pan with straight sides and two loop handles, often used for searing and poaching.

Sautéing is to cook food quickly over relatively high heat, literally meaning "to jump" as the food does when placed in a hot pan.

Scald is to heat a liquid so it's right about to reach the boiling point, where bubbles start to appear around the edges.

Sear is a technique used in grilling, baking, or sautéing in which the surface of the food is cooked at high temperature until a crust forms.

Staling is a chemical and physical process in which foods such as bread become hard, musty, or dry, also known as "going stale".

Steep is to allow dry ingredients to soak in a liquid until the liquid takes on its flavor, often referring to coffee, tea, or spices.

Sweat is gently heating vegetables in a little oil, with frequent stirring and turning to ensure emitted liquid will evaporate; usually results in tender, or in some cases such as onions', translucent pieces.

Tempering is raising the temperature of a cold or room-temperature ingredient by slowly adding hot or boiling liquid, often referring to eggs.

Tourner is to cut ingredients such as carrots or potatoes into a barrel-like shape that form six or seven sides on the length of the item being cut, using a Tourner knife or a paring knife.

Trussing is to tie meat or poultry, such as turkey with a string, woven through the bird parts by using a needle, in order to create a more compact shape before cooking.

Unleavened is made without yeast or any other leavening agent, often referring to bread.

Vandyke is to cut a zig-zag pattern around the circumference of a lemon to create decorative garnishes for food presentation.

Velouté is a type of sauce in which a light stock, such as chicken of fish, is thickened with a flour that is cooked and then allowed to turn light brown.

Victual is any food or provisions for humans; all food is a "victual".

Whip is to beat food with a mixer to incorporate air and produce volume, often used to create heavy or whipping cream, salad dressings, or sauces.

Whisk is a cooking utensil used to blend ingredients in a process such as whipping.

Xylitol is a naturally fulfilling alcohol found in most plants such as fruits and vegetables, widely used as a sugar substitute in sugar-free chewing gums, mints, and other candies.

Yakitori is a Japanese dish of small pieces of boneless chicken that is marinated, skewered, and grilled.

Zest is to cut the zest, or the colorful part of the skin that contains oils and provide aroma and flavor, away from the fruit.

Actuator is a device that creates mechanical motion by converting various forms of energy to rotating or linear mechanical energy.

Aging is the reduction of insulation life due to thermal, voltage and other stress.

Alternator is electromechanical device that converts mechanical energy to electrical energy in the form of alternating current.

Ampere is SI base unit of electric current.

Armature is the part of a machine which receives or delivers active power to the external electrical system.

Brush is a sliding electrical contact, usually rotating.

Capacitance is the amount of electrical energy stored for a given electric potential.

Chord is the factor by which short pitching a coil reduces the back e.m.f.

Coil is set of series connected turns.

Commutation is change-over switching in a periodic and automatic manner without interruption of the electric current.

Commutator is an assembly of insulated conducting segments connected to the rotating armature winding.

Conductor is a material which contains movable electrical charges.

Efficiency is ratio of output power to input power of a device.

Exciter is a source of the power to the field winding of an electrical machine.

Generator is rotating electric machine used to transform mechanical energy into electric energy.

Hertz is SI derived unit for frequency defined as the number of cycles per second of a periodic function.

Horsepower is unit of power.

Impedance is the ratio of the voltage to the electric current, a measure of opposition to time-varying electric current in an electric circuit.

Inductance is property in an electric circuit where a change in the current induces an electromotive force that opposes the change in current.

Insulation is the materials and parts used to insulate conductive elements of a machine.

Inverter is converter that changes direct electric current to single-phase or poly-phase alternating currents.

Motor is a machine which converts electrical energy into mechanical energy.

Newton is force required to accelerate a mass of one kilogram at a rate of one meter per second per second.

Poles is magnetic poles created in a machine by windings.

Power is the rate at which work is performed.

Reactance is the resistance to AC current due to capacitance or inductance.

Regeneration is operation of a motor in a generator mode to feed energy back into the power supply.

Regulation is amount of speed or voltage change due to load variations.

Reluctance is the ‘resistance’ of a magnetic circuit.

Resistance is defined as the ratio of voltage to current.

Rotor is the rotating part of an electrical machine.

Skew is non parallel stator and rotor slot alignment.

Slip is the difference between the synchronous speed and the actual speed of a rotor expressed as per unit or as a percentage of the synchronous speed.

Slot is a recess in a core in which the conductors of a winding may be placed.

Stator is the stationary portion of a machine.

Tolerance is permitted deviation between the declared value of a quantity and the measured value.

Torque is the rotational force produced by a motor.

Volt is derived SI unit for electromotive force (e.m.f.).

Watt is SI unit of power.

Yoke is part of a device, composed of magnetic material and intended to complete a magnetic circuit.
