Actuator is a device that creates mechanical motion by converting various forms of energy to rotating or linear mechanical energy.

Aging is the reduction of insulation life due to thermal, voltage and other stress.

Alternator is electromechanical device that converts mechanical energy to electrical energy in the form of alternating current.

Ampere is SI base unit of electric current.

Armature is the part of a machine which receives or delivers active power to the external electrical system.

Brush is a sliding electrical contact, usually rotating.

Capacitance is the amount of electrical energy stored for a given electric potential.

Chord is the factor by which short pitching a coil reduces the back e.m.f.

Coil is set of series connected turns.

Commutation is change-over switching in a periodic and automatic manner without interruption of the electric current.

Commutator is an assembly of insulated conducting segments connected to the rotating armature winding.

Conductor is a material which contains movable electrical charges.

Efficiency is ratio of output power to input power of a device.

Exciter is a source of the power to the field winding of an electrical machine.

Generator is rotating electric machine used to transform mechanical energy into electric energy.

Hertz is SI derived unit for frequency defined as the number of cycles per second of a periodic function.

Horsepower is unit of power.

Impedance is the ratio of the voltage to the electric current, a measure of opposition to time-varying electric current in an electric circuit.

Inductance is property in an electric circuit where a change in the current induces an electromotive force that opposes the change in current.

Insulation is the materials and parts used to insulate conductive elements of a machine.

Inverter is converter that changes direct electric current to single-phase or poly-phase alternating currents.

Motor is a machine which converts electrical energy into mechanical energy.

Newton is force required to accelerate a mass of one kilogram at a rate of one meter per second per second.

Poles is magnetic poles created in a machine by windings.

Power is the rate at which work is performed.

Reactance is the resistance to AC current due to capacitance or inductance.

Regeneration is operation of a motor in a generator mode to feed energy back into the power supply.

Regulation is amount of speed or voltage change due to load variations.

Reluctance is the ‘resistance’ of a magnetic circuit.

Resistance is defined as the ratio of voltage to current.

Rotor is the rotating part of an electrical machine.

Skew is non parallel stator and rotor slot alignment.

Slip is the difference between the synchronous speed and the actual speed of a rotor expressed as per unit or as a percentage of the synchronous speed.

Slot is a recess in a core in which the conductors of a winding may be placed.

Stator is the stationary portion of a machine.

Tolerance is permitted deviation between the declared value of a quantity and the measured value.

Torque is the rotational force produced by a motor.

Volt is derived SI unit for electromotive force (e.m.f.).

Watt is SI unit of power.

Yoke is part of a device, composed of magnetic material and intended to complete a magnetic circuit.
