Acidulation is the process of making something acid or sour with lemon or lime juice.

Aerate is the process when dry ingredients pass through a sifter and air is circulated through, changing the composition of the material, often referring to flour.

Aspic is a dish in which ingredients are set into a gelatine made from a meat stock or consommé.

Barding is to cover a meat with a layer of fat, such as bacon, before cooking, effectively maintaining the moisture of the meat while it cooks to avoid overcooking.

Baste is to pour juices or melted fat over meat or other food while cooking to keep it moist.

Bisque is a thick, creamy soup, with a base of strained broth (see coulis) of shellfish or game.

Blanching is to plunge into boiling water, remove after moment, and then plunge into iced water to halt the cooking process, usually referring to vegetable or fruit.

Braising is a combination-cooking method that first sears the food at high temperature, then finished it in a covered pot at low temperature while sitting in some amount of liquid.

Brining is the process of soaking meat in a brine, or heavily salted water, before cooking, similar to marination.

Chiffonade is shredded or finely cut vegetables and herbs, usually used as a garnish for soup.

Concasse is to roughly chop raw or cooked food by peeling, seeding, and chopping to make it ready to be served or combined with other ingredients, usually referring to tomatoes.

Consommé is a type of clear soup made from richly flavored stock that has been clarified, a process of using egg whites to remove fat.

Confit is meat cooked slowly in its own fat, usually referring to duck.

Coring is to remove the central section of some fruits, which contain seeds and tougher material that is not usually eaten.

Coulis is a thick sauce made with fruit or vegetable puree, used as a base or garnish.

Croquette is a small round roll of minced meat, fish, or vegetable coated with egg and breadcrumbs.

Deglaze is to remove and dissolve the browned food residue, or "glaze", from a pan to flavor sauces, soups, and gravies.

Degrease is to remove the fat from the surface of a hot liquid such as a sauce, soup, or stew, also known as defatting or fat trimming.

Dredging is to coat wet or moist foods with a dry ingredient before cooking to provide an even coating.

Dress is to put oil, vinegar, salt, or other toppings on a salad or other food.

Effiler is to remove the string from a string bean or to thinly slice almonds.

Emincer is to slice thinly, similar to julienne style, but not as long.

Escabeche is a dish consisting of fish marinated for approximately one day in a sauce of olive oil, vinegar, herbs, vegetables, and spices, and then poached or fried and allowed to cool.

Fillet is a boneless piece of meat, poultry, or fish; the French version, spelled as "filet," is also used when referencing a cut of beef that is boneless, such as filet mignon.

Flambe is the process of adding alcohol such as brandy, cognac, or rum to a hot pan to create a burst of flames.

Frenching is the process of removing all fat, meat, and cartilage from rib bones on a rack roast by cutting between the bones with a sharp paring knife, often referring to lamb, beef, or pork rib.

Galantine is a Polish dish of de-boned stuffed meat that is poached in gelatin stock, pressed, and served cold with aspic or its own jelly.

Galette is flat, round cakes of pastry, often topped with fruitor a food prepared in served in the shape of a flat round cake, such as "a galette of potatoes".

Gazpacho is a Spanish dish of cold, uncooked soup, which typically contain tomatoes, cucumbers, onions, garlic, oil, and vinegar.

Harissa is a spicy, aromatic chile paste made from a variety of hot peppers and spices, often used in North African and Middle Eastern cooking.

Infusion is the process of extracting chemical compounds or flavors from a vegetable in water, oil, or alcohol, by allowing the material to remain suspended in the liquid over time, also known as steeping.

Involtini is food such as meat, poultry, seafood, or vegetables, wrapped around a filling such as cheese, cured meats, or nuts.

Irradiation is the process of exposing food to radiation, designed to eliminate disease-causing germs from foods.

Isinglass is a pure, transparent form of gelatin, obtained from the bladders of certain fish, used in jellies as a clarifying agent.

Jacquarding is the process of poking holes into the muscle of meat in order to tenderize it, also known as needling.

Jeroboam is an oversize wine bottle holding about three liters.

Kipper is a whole herring that has been split into a butterfly fashion from tail to head, gutted, salted, or pickled.

Kirsch is a fragrant, colorless, unaged brandy distilled from fermented cherries , used with fondue.

Lactobacillus is a bacterium usually found in fermenting products, such as yogurts.

Larding is the process of inserting strips of fat into a piece of meat that doesn't have as much fat, to melt and keep the meat from drying out.

Liaison is a binding agent of cream and egg yolks used to thicken soups or sauces.

Macerate is the process of softening or breaking into pieces using liquid, often referring to fruit or vegetables, in order to absorb the flavor of the liquid.

Marinate is the process of soaking foods in seasoned and acidic liquid before cooking for hours or days, adding flavor to the food.

Mesclun is a salad consisting of tender mixed greens such as lettuce, arugula, and chicory, herbs, and edible flowers.

Mignonette is roughly cracked or coarsely ground peppercorns, used for au poivre dishes or for mignonette sauce, which contains vinegar and shallots as well and is often used for oysters.

Mince is to finely divide food into uniform pieces smaller than diced or chopped foods, prepared using a chef's knife or food processor.

Nappe is the ability of a liquid to coat the back of a spoon or the act of coating a food, such as a leg of lamb, with glaze.

Needling is injecting fat or flavors into an ingredient to enhance its flavor.

Nutraceutical is used to describe food that provides health or medical benefits as well as nutritional value, also known as functional food.

Oeuf is the French term for egg.

Ort is a scrap or morsel of food left over after a meal.

Ouzo is an anise-flavored, strong, colorless liquor from Greece.

Parboiling is the process of adding foods to boiling waters, cooking until they are softened, then removing before they are fully cooked, usually to partially cook an item which will then be cooked another way.

Parcooking is the process of not fully cooking food, so that it can be finished or reheated later.

Pâté is a mixture of seasoned ground meat and fat minced into a spreadable paste.

Paupiette is a thin, flattened piece of meat, rolled with a stuffing of vegetables or fruits, which is then cooked before served.

Persillade is a sauce or seasoning mixture of parsley chopped with seasonings, often used as part of a saute cook's mise en place.

Polenta is a mush or porridge made from yellow or cornmeal which originated in Northern Italy.

Praline is a confection of nuts cooked in boiling sugar until brown and crisp.

Quadriller is to make criss-cross lines on the surface of food, as part of food presentation.

Quenelle is a small quantity of a mixture of creamed fish or meat with a light egg binding, usually formed into a round shape, and then cooked.

Remouillage is a stock made from bones that have already been used once to make a stock, making it weaker.

Render is to cook the fat out of something, such as bacon.

Rondeau is a wide, shallow pan with straight sides and two loop handles, often used for searing and poaching.

Sautéing is to cook food quickly over relatively high heat, literally meaning "to jump" as the food does when placed in a hot pan.

Scald is to heat a liquid so it's right about to reach the boiling point, where bubbles start to appear around the edges.

Sear is a technique used in grilling, baking, or sautéing in which the surface of the food is cooked at high temperature until a crust forms.

Staling is a chemical and physical process in which foods such as bread become hard, musty, or dry, also known as "going stale".

Steep is to allow dry ingredients to soak in a liquid until the liquid takes on its flavor, often referring to coffee, tea, or spices.

Sweat is gently heating vegetables in a little oil, with frequent stirring and turning to ensure emitted liquid will evaporate; usually results in tender, or in some cases such as onions', translucent pieces.

Tempering is raising the temperature of a cold or room-temperature ingredient by slowly adding hot or boiling liquid, often referring to eggs.

Tourner is to cut ingredients such as carrots or potatoes into a barrel-like shape that form six or seven sides on the length of the item being cut, using a Tourner knife or a paring knife.

Trussing is to tie meat or poultry, such as turkey with a string, woven through the bird parts by using a needle, in order to create a more compact shape before cooking.

Unleavened is made without yeast or any other leavening agent, often referring to bread.

Vandyke is to cut a zig-zag pattern around the circumference of a lemon to create decorative garnishes for food presentation.

Velouté is a type of sauce in which a light stock, such as chicken of fish, is thickened with a flour that is cooked and then allowed to turn light brown.

Victual is any food or provisions for humans; all food is a "victual".

Whip is to beat food with a mixer to incorporate air and produce volume, often used to create heavy or whipping cream, salad dressings, or sauces.

Whisk is a cooking utensil used to blend ingredients in a process such as whipping.

Xylitol is a naturally fulfilling alcohol found in most plants such as fruits and vegetables, widely used as a sugar substitute in sugar-free chewing gums, mints, and other candies.

Yakitori is a Japanese dish of small pieces of boneless chicken that is marinated, skewered, and grilled.

Zest is to cut the zest, or the colorful part of the skin that contains oils and provide aroma and flavor, away from the fruit.
