One beautiful spring morning, a merchant loaded his donkey with bags of salt to go to the market in order to sell them. The merchant and his donkey were walking along together. They had not walked far when they reached a river on the road.
Unfortunately, the donkey slipped and fell into the river and noticed that the bags of salt loaded on his back became lighter.
There was nothing the merchant could do, except return home where he loaded his donkey with more bags of salt. As they reached the slippery riverbank, now deliberately, the donkey fell into the river and wasted all the bags of salt on its back again.
The merchant quickly discovered the donkey’s trick. He then returned home again but re-loaded his donkey with bags of sponges.
The foolish, tricky donkey again set on its way. On reaching the river he again fell into the water.
But instead of the load becoming lighter, it became heavier.
The merchant laughed at him and said: You foolish donkey, your trick had been discovered, you should know that, those who are too clever sometimes over reach themselves. 
THE CLEVER BOY  One cold, frosty day in the middle of winter a colony of ants was busy drying out some, grains of corn, which had grown damp during the wet autumn weather.
A grasshopper half dead with cold and hunger, came up to one of the ants. Please give me a grail or two from your store of corn to save my life, he said faintly.
We worked day and night to get this corn in.
Why should I give it to you? asked the ant crossly.
Whatever were you doing all last summer when you should have been gathering your food? Oh I didn’t have time for things like that, said the grasshopper. I was far too busy singing to carry corn about. The ant laughed I unkindly. In that case you can sing all winter as far as I am concerned, he said.
And without another word he turned back to his work.
Islam teaches us that we should help the less fortunate. But it also teaches us that we must work hard and not rely on the kindness of others for our daily needs.
