There was a young couple who led a very happy life together. The only thing that they worried about was, whether their happiness would last forever or would they too would have to face problems. One day, they heard that a wise old man had come to town; he could solve all kinds of problems and guide people. So the couple decided to visit the wise old man and tell him their source of worry.
The wise old man told them; Travel around the world and seek a man and a woman who are perfectly happy as a couple. When you find such a couple, ask them for a piece of cloth from the man’s shirt, then keep that piece of cloth with you, and you always remain happy. The young couple began their journey, to find the happiest couple in their world. In one place they heard that the governor and his wife were the happiest people, so they went to their palace and asked them, Are you the happiest couple? The governor and his wife replied, Yes, we are happy in every way except for one thing; we do not have any children. Well that didn’t make the governor and his wife the happiest couple. So they continued their journey. They arrived in one city where they had heard that the happiest couple lived.
They went to their house and asked them, Are you the happiest couple? The couple replied, Yes, we are really happy in every way except that we have too many children which make our life a bit uncomfortable. No, this couple did not sound to be the happiest. And, so they continued their journey. They visited many countries, cities, towns and villages asking the same question but they did not find what they were looking for.
One Day the young couple came across a shepherd in the desert.
The shepherd was grazing his sheep when his wife and child came along. The shepherd greeted his wife and gently patted the child she was carrying. She laid the mat and started to eat contentedly. The young couple came to them and asked them, Are you the happiest couple? The shepherd and his wife replied, Nobody is unhappier than the king. The young couple immediately realized that they were the happiest couple and asked them for a piece of the shepherd’s shirt, so that their happiness too would last throughout.
The shepherd said, If I give you a piece of cloth from my shirt then I will be left without any clothes since I own just one shirt. The young couple at once understood that it is very difficult to  find perfect happiness anywhere in the world. The couple decided to return to their own country.
They went to the wise old man and related all that had taken place. They also complained that his guidance was difficult to abide by.
The wise old man laughed and said, Was your journey useless or did you learn something from it? The young man replied, Yes, after this trip I have learnt that in this world, nobody is perfectly happy, only that person is happy who does everything to please God. Holy Quran (2:38) says: And whosever follows My (Allah’s) guidance, on them shall be no fear nor shall they grieve. The wife said, I have learnt that in order to be happy it is important to remember two things; first, all human beings should be thankful and contented with whatever they have. Holy Quran (14:7) says: And your Lord declared publicly: if you are grateful, I will add more favors unto you. And secondly, for ultimate happiness one must always practice patience.
Holy Quran (2:45) says: Seek help through patient perseverance and prayers. After that, young couple thanked the wise old man for his guidance and returned home. The wise man prayed for them and said, Indeed the sign of happiness is in their heart and they have good manners and if the lifetime is spent in pleasure of God there would be no differences in the existence of mankind. Holy Quran (20:123-124) says: Whosoever follows My (Allah’s) guidance, will not loose his way or fall into misery But whosoever turns away from My message, verily for him is a miserable life. 
HOPE AND GREED Caliph Haroon Rashid desired that any one who had seen the Holy Prophet (SAW) in his lifetime be brought before him. After some time a very old woman was brought before the Caliph. The Caliph asked the old woman, Did you see the Prophet yourself? She said, Yes! Sir. The Caliph then asked her if she remembered any narration from him.
She said yes and said, When old age comes two things become young, one is hope and the other is greed. The Caliph thanked her and gave her one hundred dinars. The woman thanked Caliph and she was taken back.
Half the way some thought passed through her mind and she desired to be brought before the Caliph once more. When she was shown in, the Caliph asked, Well, why have you come back? She said. I just came to inquire whether the monies you gave me were once for all or is it to continue every year? The Caliph thought. How true is the Prophet’s (SAW) word? she has hope of life even now and she has greed for money too. The Caliph said, Don’t worry; you will be paid every year. She was taken back but on the way she breathed her last.
Once upon a time. There was a rich merchant who had 4 wives. He loved the 4th wife the most and adorned her with rich robes and treated her to delicacies. He took great care of her & gave her nothing but the best.
He also loved the 3rd wife very much. He’s very proud of her and always wanted to show off her to his friends. However, the merchant is always in fear that she might run away with some other men.
He too, loved his 2nd wife. She is a very considerate person, always patient & in fact is the merchant’s confidante. Whenever the merchant faced some problems, he always turned to his 2nd wife and she would always help him out and tide him through difficult times.
Now, the merchant’s 1st wife is a very loyal partner and has made great contributions in maintaining his wealth and business as well as taking care of the household. However, the merchant did not love the 1st wife and although she loved him deeply, he hardly took notice of her.
One day, the merchant fell ill. Before long, he knew that he was going to die soon. He thought of his luxurious life and told himself, Now I have 4 wives with me. But when I die, I’ll be alone. How lonely I’ll be! Thus, he asked the 4th wife, I loved you most, endowed you with the finest clothing and showered great care over you. Now that I’m dying, will you follow me and keep me company? No way! replied the 4th wife and she walked away without another word. Answer cut like a sharp knife right into the merchant’s heart.
The sad merchant then asked the 3rd wife, I have loved you so much for all my life. Now that I’m dying, will you follow me and keep me company? No! replied the 3rd wife. Life is so good over here! I’m going to remarry when you die! The merchant’s heart sank and turned cold.
He then asked the 2nd wife, I always turned to you for help and you’ve always helped me out. Now I need your help again. When I die, will you follow me and keep me company? I’m sorry, I can’t help you out this time! replied the 2nd wife. At the very most, I can only send you to your grave. Answer came like a bolt of thunder & merchant was devastated.
Then a voice called out: I’ll leave with you. I’ll follow you no matter where you go. The merchant looked up and there was his 1st wife. She was so skinny, almost like she suffered from malnutrition.
Greatly grieved, the merchant said, I should have taken much better care of you while I could have! Actually, we all have 4 wives in our lives. The 4th wife is our body. No matter how much time and effort we lavish in making it look good, it’ll leave us when we die.
