Once upon a time there was a child ready to be born. One day the child asked God, They tell me you are going to send me to earth tomorrow but how am I going to live there being so small and helpless? God replied, Among the many angels I have chosen one for you. She will be waiting for you and will take care of you. Said child, But tell me here in Heaven I don’t do anything else but sing and smile. That’s what I need to be happy! God replied, Your angel will sing for you every day. And you will feel your angel’s love and be happy. And, said the child, How am I going to be able to understand when people talk to me, if I don’t know the language that men talk? That’s easy, God said, Your angel will tell you the most beautiful and sweet words you will ever hear, and with much patience and care, your angel will teach you how to speak. The child looked up at God saying, And what am I going to do when I want to talk to you? God smiled at the child saying, Your angel will teach you how to pray. The child said, I’ve heard on earth there are bad men. Who will protect me? God replied, Your angel will defend you, even if it means risking life! The child looked sad, saying, But I will always be sad because I will not see you anymore. God replied, Your angel will always talk to you about me and will teach you the way to come back to me, even though I will always be next to you. At that moment there was much peace in Heaven, but voices from earth could already be heard.
The child in a hurry, asked softly, Oh God, if I am about to leave now please tell me my angel’s name! God replied, Your angel’s name is of no importance… you will simply call her MOTHER!  A mother duck and her little ducklings were on their way to the lake one day. The ducklings were very happy following their mother and quack-quacking along the way.
All of a sudden the mother duck saw a fox in the distance.
She was frightened and shouted, Children, hurry to the lake. There’s a fox! The ducklings hurried towards the lake. The mother duck wondered what to do. She began to walk back and forth dragging one wing on the ground.
When the fox saw her he became happy. He said to himself, It seems that she’s hurt and can’t fly! I can easily catch and eat her! Then he ran towards her.
The mother duck ran, leading the fox away from the lake. The fox followed her. Now he wouldn’t be able to harm her ducklings. The mother duck looked towards her ducklings and saw that they had reached the lake. She was relieved, so she stopped and took a deep breath.
The fox thought she was tired and he came closer, but the mother duck quickly spread her wings and rose up in the air. She landed in the middle of the lake and her ducklings swam to her.
The fox stared in disbelief at the mother duck and her ducklings. He could not reach them because they were in the middle of the lake.
Dear children, some birds drag one of their wings on the ground when an enemy is going to attack. In this way they fool their enemies into thinking they are hurt. When the enemy follows them this gives their children time to escape.
MENTALLY RETARDED! A few years ago, at the Seattle Special Olympics, nine contestants, all physically or mentally disabled, assembled at the starting line for the 100-yard dash.
At the gun, they all started out, not exactly in a dash, but with a relish to run the race to the finish and win. All, that is, except one little boy who stumbled on the asphalt, tumbled over a couple of times, and began to cry. The other eight heard the boy cry. They slowed down and looked back. Then they all turned around and went back.....every one of them.
One girl with Down’s syndrome bent down and kissed him and said, This will make it better. Then all nine linked arms and walked together to the finish line. Everyone in the stadium stood, and the cheering went on for several minutes. People who were there are still telling the story.
Why? Because deep down we know this one thing: What matters in this life is more than winning for ourselves. What matters in this life is helping others win, even if it means slowing down and changing our course.
