WALLACE: Good evening from the Health Education Campus of Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic. I’m Chris Wallace of Fox News and I welcome you to the first of the 2020 presidential debates between President Donald J. Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden. This debate is sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates. The Commission has designed the format, six roughly 15-minute segments with two-minute answers from each candidate to the first question, then open discussion for the rest of each segment. Both campaigns have agreed to these rules. For the record, I decided the topics and the questions in each topic. I can assure you none of the questions has been shared with the Commission or the two candidates.
This debate is being conducted under health and safety protocols designed by the Cleveland Clinic, which is serving as the health security advisor to the Commission for all four debates. As a precaution, both campaigns have agreed the candidates will not shake hands at the beginning of tonight’s debate. The audience here in the hall has promised to remain silent. No cheers, no boos, or other interruptions so we, and more importantly you, can focus on what the candidates have to say. No noise except right now, as we welcome the Republican nominee, President Trump, and the Democratic nominee Vice President Biden.
BIDEN: How you doing, man?
TRUMP: How are you doing?
BIDEN: I’m well.
WALLACE: Gentlemen, a lot of people have been waiting for this night, so let’s get going. Our first subject is the Supreme Court. President Trump, you nominated Amy Coney Barrett over the weekend to succeed the late Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Court. You say the Constitution is clear about your obligation and the Senate’s to consider a nominee to the Court. Vice President Biden, you say that this is an effort by the President and Republicans to jam through on an appointment in what you call an abuse of power. My first question to both of you tonight, why are you right in the argument you make and your opponent wrong? And where do you think a Justice Barrett would take the court? President Trump, in this first segment, you go first. Two minutes.
TRUMP: Thank you very much, Chris. I will tell you very simply. We won the election. Elections have consequences. We have the Senate, we have the White House, and we have a phenomenal nominee respected by all. Top, top academic, good in every way. Good in every way. In fact, some of her biggest endorsers are very liberal people from Notre Dame and other places. So I think she’s going to be fantastic. We have plenty of time. Even if we did it after the election itself. I have a lot of time after the election, as you know. So I think that she will be outstanding. She’s going to be as good as anybody that has served on that court. We really feel that. We have a professor at Notre Dame, highly respected by all, said she’s the single greatest student he’s ever had. He’s been a professor for a long time at a great school.
And we won the election and therefore we have the right to choose her, and very few people knowingly would say otherwise. And by the way, the Democrats, they wouldn’t even think about not doing it. The only difference is they’d try and do it faster. There’s no way they would give it up. They had Merrick Garland, but the problem is they didn’t have the election so they were stopped. And probably that would happen in reverse, also. Definitely would happen in reverse. So we won the election and we have the right to do it, Chris.
WALLACE: President Trump, thank you. Same question to you, Vice President Biden. You have two minutes.
BIDEN: Well, first of all, thank you for doing this and looking forward to this, Mr. President.
TRUMP: Thank you, Joe.
BIDEN: The American people have a right to have a say in who the Supreme Court nominee is and that say occurs when they vote for United States Senators and when they vote for the President of United States. They’re not going to get that chance now because we’re in the middle of an election already. The election has already started. Tens of thousands of people already voted and so the thing that should happen is we should wait. We should wait and see what the outcome of this election is because that’s the only way the American people get to express their view is by who they elect as President and who they elect as Vice President.
Now, what’s at stake here is the President’s made it clear, he wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. He’s been running on that, he ran on that and he’s been governing on that. He’s in the Supreme Court right now trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, which will strip 20 million people from having health insurance now, if it goes into court. And the justice, I’m not opposed to the justice, she seems like a very fine person. But she’s written, before she went in the bench, which is her right, that she thinks that the Affordable Care Act is not Constitutional. The other thing that’s on the court, and if it’s struck down, what happens? Women’s rights are fundamentally changed. Once again, a woman could pay more money because she has a pre-existing condition of pregnancy. They’re able to charge women more for the same exact procedure a man gets.
And that ended when we, in fact, passed the Affordable Care Act, and there’s a hundred million people who have pre-existing conditions and they’ll be taken away as well. Those pre-existing conditions, insurance companies are going to love this. And so it’s just not appropriate to do this before this election. If he wins the election and the Senate is Republican, then he goes forward. If not, we should wait until February.
TRUMP: There aren’t a hundred million people with pre-existing conditions. As far as a say is concerned, the people already had their say. Okay, Justice Ginsburg said very powerfully, very strongly, at some point 10 years ago or so, she said a President and the Senate is elected for a period of time, but a President is elected for four years. We’re not elected for three years. I’m not elected for three years. So we have the Senate, we have a President
BIDEN: He’s elected to the next election.
TRUMP: During that period of time, during that period of time, we have an opening. I’m not elected for three years. I’m elected for four years. Joe, the hundred million people is totally wrong. I don’t know where you got that number. The bigger problem that you have is that you’re going to extinguish 180 million people with their private health care, that they’re very happy with.
BIDEN: That’s simply not true.
TRUMP: Well, you’re certainly going to socialist. You’re going to socialist medicine
WALLACE: Gentlemen, we’re now into open discussion.
BIDEN: Open discussion.
WALLACE: Open discussion, yes, I agree. Go ahead, Vice President.
BIDEN: Number one, he knows what I proposed. What I proposed is that we expand Obamacare and we increase it. We do not wipe any. And one of the big debates we had with 23 of my colleagues trying to win the nomination that I won, were saying that Biden wanted to allow people to have private insurance still. They can. They do. They will under my proposal.
TRUMP: That’s not what you’ve said and it’s not what your party is saying.
BIDEN: That is simply a lie.
TRUMP: Your party doesn’t say it. Your party wants to go socialist medicine and socialist healthcare.
BIDEN: The party is me. Right now, I am the Democratic Party.
TRUMP: And they’re going to dominate you, Joe. You know that.
BIDEN: I am the Democratic Party right now.
TRUMP: Not according to Harris.
BIDEN: The platform of the Democratic Party is what I, in fact, approved of, what I approved of. Now, here’s the deal. The deal is that it’s going to wipe out pre-existing conditions. And, by the way, the 200,000 people that have died on his watch, how many of those have survived? Well, there’s seven million people that contracted COVID. What does it mean for them going forward if you strike down the Affordable Care Act?
TRUMP: Joe, you’ve had 308,000 military people dying because you couldn’t provide them proper healthcare in the military. So don’t tell me about this.
BIDEN: I’m happy to talk about this.
TRUMP: And if you were here, it wouldn’t be 200, it would be two million people because you were very late on the draw. You didn’t want me to ban China, which was heavily infected. You didn’t want me to ban Europe.
WALLACE: All right, gentlemen, Mr. President.
TRUMP: You would have been much later, Joe, much later.
WALLACE: Mr. President.
TRUMP: We’re talking about two million people.
BIDEN: You’re not going to be able to shut him up.
WALLACE: Mr. President, as the moderator, we are going to talk about COVID in the next segment. But go ahead.
BIDEN: Let me finish. The point is that the President also is opposed to Roe V. Wade. That’s on the ballot as well and the court, in the court, and so that’s also at stake right now. And so the election is all
TRUMP: You don’t know what’s on the ballot. Why is it on the ballot? Why is it on the ballot? It’s not on the ballot.
BIDEN: It’s on the ballot in the court.
TRUMP: I don’t think so.
BIDEN: In the court.
TRUMP: There’s nothing happening there.
BIDEN: Donald would you just be quiet for a minute.
TRUMP: You don’t know her view on Roe V. Wade? You don’t know her view.
WALLACE: Well, all right. All right. Let’s talk. We’ve got a lot to unpack here, gentlemen. We’ve got a lot of time. On healthcare, and then we’ll come back to Roe V. Wade.
BIDEN: All right.
WALLACE: Mr. President, the Supreme Court will hear a case a week after the election in which the Trump Administration, along with 18 state Attorney Generals are seeking to overturn Obamacare, to end Obamacare.
TRUMP: That’s right.
WALLACE: You have spent the last week
TRUMP: Because they want to give good healthcare.
WALLACE: If I may ask my question, sir.
BIDEN: Good healthcare.
WALLACE: Over the last four years, you have promised to repeal and replace Obamacare, but you have never in these four years come up with a plan, a comprehensive plan, to replace Obamacare.
TRUMP: Yes, I have. Of course, I have. The individual mandate.
WALLACE: when I finish I’m going to give an opportunity
TRUMP: Excuse me. I got rid of the individual mandate, which was a big chunk of Obamacare.
WALLACE: That’s not a comprehensive place.
TRUMP: That is absolutely a big thing. That was the worst part of Obamacare.
WALLACE: I didn’t ask, sir.
TRUMP: Chris, that was the worst part of Obamacare.
WALLACE: You’re debating him not me. Let me ask my question.
TRUMP: Well, I’ll ask Joe. The individual mandate was the most unpopular aspect of Obamacare.
WALLACE: Mr. President.
TRUMP: I got rid of it. And we will protect people.
WALLACE: Mr. President, I’m the moderator of this debate and I would like you to let me ask my question and then you can answer.
TRUMP: Go ahead.
WALLACE: You, in the course of these four years, have never come up with a comprehensive plan to replace Obamacare, and just this last Thursday you signed a largely symbolic Executive Order to protect people with pre-existing conditions five days before this debate. So my question, sir, is what is the Trump healthcare plan?
TRUMP: Well, first of all, I guess I’m debating you, not him, but that’s okay. I’m not surprised. Let me just tell you something. There’s nothing symbolic. I’m cutting drug prices. I’m going with Favored Nations, which no President has the courage to do because you’re going against big pharma. Drug prices will be coming down 80 or 90%. You could have done it during your 47-year period in government, but you didn’t do it. Nobody’s done it. So we’re cutting healthcare.
WALLACE: What about pre-existing conditions?
TRUMP: All of the things that we’ve done.
BIDEN: He has not done healthcare.
TRUMP: I’ll give you an example. Insulin, it was destroying families, destroying people, the cost. I’m getting it for so cheap it’s like water, you want to know the truth. So cheap. Take a look at all of the drugs that what we’re doing. Prescription drug prices, we’re going to allow our Governors now to go to other countries to buy drugs because when they paid just a tiny fraction of what we do.
WALLACE: Okay, like I say, this is open discussion.
TRUMP: This is big stuff.
WALLACE: Sir, you’ll be happy. I’m about to pick up on one of your points to ask the Vice President, which is, he points out that you would like to add a public option to Obamacare.
BIDEN: Yes.
WALLACE: And the argument that he makes and other Republicans make is that that is going to end private insurance.
BIDEN: It is not.
WALLACE: If I start asking the question.
TRUMP: That’s not what your party says, by the way.
WALLACE: And it will end private insurance and create a government takeover of healthcare.
BIDEN: It does not. It’s only for those people who are so poor they qualify for Medicaid they can get that free in most States, except Governors who want to deny people who are poor Medicaid. Anyone who qualifies for Medicaid would automatically be enrolled in the public option. The vast majority of the American people would still not be in that option. Number one. Number two.
TRUMP: Joe, you agreed with Bernie Sanders, who’s far left, on the manifesto, we call it. And that gives you socialized medicine.
BIDEN: Look, hey.
TRUMP: Are you saying you didn’t agree?
BIDEN: I’m not going to listen to him. The fact of the matter is I beat Bernie Sanders.
TRUMP: Not by much.
BIDEN: I beat him by a whole hell of a lot.
TRUMP: Not by much.
BIDEN: I’m here standing facing you, old buddy.
TRUMP: If Pocahontas would have left two days early you would have lost every primary.
BIDEN: All he knows how to do
TRUMP: On Super Tuesday, you got very lucky.
BIDEN: Look he’s the deal. I got very lucky. I’m going to get very lucky tonight as well.
TRUMP: With what?
BIDEN: And tonight I’m going to make sure.
TRUMP: With what?
BIDEN: Because here’s the deal, here’s the deal. The fact is that everything he’s saying so far is simply a lie. I’m not here to call out his lies. Everybody knows he’s a liar.
TRUMP: But you agree. Joe, you’re the liar. You graduated last in your class not first in your class.
BIDEN: God, I want to make sure
WALLACE: Mr. President, can you let him finish, sir?
BIDEN: No, he doesn’t know how to do that.
TRUMP: You’d be surprised. You’d be surprised. Go ahead, Joe.
BIDEN: The wrong guy, the wrong night, at the wrong time.
TRUMP: Listen, you agreed with Bernie Sanders and the manifesto.
BIDEN: There is no manifesto, number one.
WALLACE: Please let him speak, Mr. President.
BIDEN: Number two.
TRUMP: He just lost the left.
BIDEN: Number two.
TRUMP: You just lost the left. You agreed with Bernie Sanders on a plan that you absolutely agreed to and under that plan , they call it socialized medicine.
WALLACE: Mr. President.
BIDEN: I’ll tell you what, he is not for any help for people needing healthcare.
TRUMP: Who is, Bernie?
BIDEN: Because he, in fact, already has cost 10 million people their healthcare that they had from their employers because of his recession. Number one. Number two, there are 20 million people getting healthcare through Obamacare now that he wants to take it away. He won’t ever look you in the eye and say that’s what he wants to do. Take it away.
TRUMP: No, I want to give them better healthcare at a much lower price, because Obamacare is no good.
BIDEN: He doesn’t know how. He doesn’t know how to do that.
TRUMP: I’ve already fixed it.
BIDEN: He has never offered a plan.
TRUMP: We’ve already fixed it to an extent. Obamacare, as you might know but probably don’t, Obamacare is no good.
WALLACE: Gentlemen, you realize if you’re both speaking at the same time. Let the President. Go ahead, sir.
TRUMP: Obamacare is no good. We made it better and I had a choice to make very early on. We took away the individual mandate. We guaranteed pre-existing conditions, but took away the individual mandate. Listen, this is the way it is. And that destroyed They shouldn’t even call it Obamacare, then I had a choice to make, do I let my people run it really well or badly? If I run it badly, they’ll probably blame him, but they’ll blame me. But more importantly, I want to help people. Okay. I said, “You’ve got to run it so well.” And I just had a meeting with them. They said the problem is, no matter how well you run Obamacare, it’s a disaster. It’s too expensive. Premiums are too high, that it doesn’t work. So we do want to get rid of it. Chris, we want to get rid of that and give something that’s cheaper and better.
WALLACE: I understand that, sir. But I have to give you roughly equal time.
TRUMP: Go ahead.
WALLACE: Please let the Vice President talk, sir.
TRUMP: Good.
BIDEN: He has no plan for healthcare.
TRUMP: Of course, we do.
WALLACE: Please.
BIDEN: He sends out wishful thinking. He has Executive Orders that have no power. He hasn’t lowered drug costs for anybody. He’s been promising a healthcare plan since he got elected. He has none, like almost everything else he talks about. He does not have a plan. He doesn’t have a plan. And the fact is this man doesn’t know what he’s talking about. 
WALLACE: All right, I have one final question for you.
BIDEN: Sure.
WALLACE: Mr. Vice President, if Senate Republicans, we were talking originally about the Supreme Court here, if Senate Republicans go ahead and confirm Justice Barrett there has been talk about ending the filibuster or even packing the court, adding to the nine justices there. You call this a distraction by the President. But, in fact, it wasn’t brought up by the President. It was brought up by some of your Democratic colleagues in the Congress. So my question to you is, you have refused in the past to talk about it, are you willing to tell the American people tonight whether or not you will support either ending the filibuster or packing the court?
BIDEN: Whatever position I take on that, that’ll become the issue. The issue is the American people should speak. You should go out and vote. You’re voting now. Vote and let your Senators know how strongly you feel.
TRUMP: Are you going to pack the court?
BIDEN: Vote now.
TRUMP: Are you going to pack the court?
BIDEN: Make sure you, in fact, let people know, your Senators.
TRUMP: He doesn’t want to answer the question.
BIDEN: I’m not going to answer the question.
TRUMP: Why wouldn’t you answer that question? You want to put a lot of new Supreme Court Justices. Radical left.
BIDEN: Will you shut up, man?
TRUMP: Listen, who is on your list, Joe? Who’s on your list?
WALLACE: Gentlemen, I think we’ve ended this
BIDEN: This is so un-Presidential.
TRUMP: He’s going to pack the court. He is not going to give a list.
WALLACE: We have ended the segment. We’re going to move on to the second segment.
BIDEN: That was really a productive segment, wasn’t it? Keep yapping, man.
TRUMP: The people understand, Joe.
BIDEN: They sure do.
TRUMP: 47 years, you’ve done nothing. They understand.
WALLACE: All right, the second subject is COVID-19, which is an awfully serious subject. So let’s try to be serious about it. We have had more than seven million cases of coronavirus in the United States and more than 200,000 people have died. Even after we produce a vaccine, experts say that it could be months or even years before we come back to anything approaching normal. My question for both of you is, based on what you have said and done so far, and what you have said you would do starting in 2021, why should the American people trust you more than your opponent to deal with this public health crisis going forward? In this case, the question goes to you first, sir. Two minutes, uninterrupted.
BIDEN: Good luck. 200,000 dead. As you said, over seven million infected in the United States. We, in fact, have 4% of the world’s population, 20% of the deaths. 40,000 people a day are contracting COVID. In addition to that, about between 750 and 1000 people a day are dying. When he was presented with that number, he said, “It is what it is.” Well, it is what it is because you are who you are. That’s why it is. The President has no plan. He hasn’t laid out anything. He knew all the way back in February how serious this crisis was. He knew it was a deadly disease. What did he do? He’s on tape as acknowledging he knew it. He said he didn’t tell us or give people a warning of it because he didn’t want to panic the American people. You don’t panic. He panicked. In addition to that, what did he do?
BIDEN: He went in and we were insisting that the people we had in the ground in China should be able to go to Wuhan and determine for themselves how dangerous this was. He did not even ask Xi to do that.
TRUMP: Wrong.
BIDEN: He told us what a great job Xi was doing. He said we owe him a debt of gratitude for being so transparent with us. And what did he do then? He then did nothing. He waited and waited and waited. He still doesn’t have a plan.
TRUMP: Wrong.
WALLACE: Sir, it’s his two minutes.
TRUMP: It’s so wrong.
BIDEN: I laid out back in March, exactly what we should be doing. And I laid out again in July, what we should be doing. We should be providing all the protective gear possible. We should be providing the money the House has passed in order to be able to go out and get people the help they need to keep their businesses open. Open schools cost a lot of money. You should get out of your bunker and get out of the sand trap in your golf course and go in the Oval Office and bring together the Democrats and Republicans and fund what needs to be done now to save lives.
TRUMP: So, if we would have listened to you.
WALLACE: Wait, wait. You have two minutes, sir.
TRUMP: If we would’ve listened to you, the country would have been left wide open, millions of people would have died, not 200,000. And one person is too much. It’s China’s fault. It should have never happened. They stopped it from going in, but it was China’s fault. And, by the way, when you talk about numbers, you don’t know how many people died in China. You don’t know how many people died in Russia. You don’t know how many people died in India. They don’t exactly give you a straight count, just so you understand. But if you look at what we’ve done, I closed it and you said, “He’s xenophobic. He’s a racist and he’s xenophobic,” because you didn’t think I should have closed our country. Wait a minute.
WALLACE: Sir, it’s his two minutes.
TRUMP: You didn’t think we should have closed our country because you thought it was terrible. You wouldn’t have closed it for another two months. By my doing it early, in fact, Dr. Fauci said, “President Trump saved thousands of lives.” Many of your Democrat Governors said, “President Trump did a phenomenal job.” We worked with the Governor. Oh really, go take a look. The Governors said I did a phenomenal job. Most of them said that. In fact, people that would not be necessarily on my side said that, “President Trump did a phenomenal job.” We did. We got the gowns. We got the masks. We made the ventilators. You wouldn’t have made ventilators. And now we’re weeks away from a vaccine. We’re doing therapeutics already. Fewer people are dying when they get sick. Far fewer people are dying. We’ve done a great job.
TRUMP: The only thing I haven’t done a good job, and that’s because of the fake news, no matter what you say to them, they give you a bad press on it. It’s just fake news. They give you good press, they give me bad press because that’s the way it is, unfortunately. But let me just say something. I don’t care. I’ve gotten used to it. But I’ll tell you, Joe, you could never have done the job that we did. You don’t have it in your blood. You could’ve never done that, Joe.
BIDEN: I know how to do the job. I know how to get the job done.
TRUMP: Well, you didn’t do very well in Swine Flu. H1-N1, you were a disaster. Your own Chief of Staff said you were a disaster.
BIDEN: 14,000 people died, not 200,000.
TRUMP: A far less lethal disease, by the way.
WALLACE: Sir, you made a point. Let him answer it.
BIDEN: And there was no one We didn’t shut down the economy. This is his economy he shut down. The reason it’s shut down is because, look, you folks at home. How many of you got up this morning and had an empty chair at the kitchen table because someone died of COVID? How many of you are in a situation where you lost your mom or dad and you couldn’t even speak to them, you had a nurse holding a phone up so you could in fact say goodbye?
TRUMP: We would have lost far more people, far more people. You would have been months late. You’re months behind me, Joe.
BIDEN: His own CDC Director says we could lose as many as another 200,000 people between now and the end of the year. And he said, if we just wear a mask, we can save half those numbers. Just a mask. And by the way, in terms of the whole notion of a vaccine, we’re for a vaccine, but I don’t trust him at all. Nor do you. I know you don’t. What we trust is a scientist.
TRUMP: You don’t trust Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer?
WALLACE: Okay, gentlemen, gentlemen. Let me move on to questions about the future because you both have touched on two of the questions I’m going to ask. Focusing on the future first, President Trump, you have repeatedly either contradicted or been at odds with some of your governments own top scientists. The week before last, the Head of the Centers for Disease Control, Dr. Redfield said it would be summer before the vaccine would become generally available to the public. You said that he was confused and mistaken. Those were your two words. But Dr. Slaoui, the head of your Operation Warp Speed, has said exactly the same thing. Are they both wrong?
TRUMP: Well, I’ve spoken to the companies and we can have it a lot sooner. It’s a very political thing because people like this would rather make it political than save lives.
BIDEN: God.
TRUMP: It is a very political thing. I’ve spoken to Pfizer, I’ve spoken to all of the people that you have to speak to, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson, and others. They can go faster than that by a lot. It’s become very political because the left Or I don’t know if I call them left, I don’t know what I call them.
WALLACE: So you’re suggesting that the head of your Operation Warp Speed, Dr. Slaoui
TRUMP: I disagree with him. No, I disagree with both of them. And he didn’t say that. He said it could be there, but it could also be much sooner. I had him in my office two days ago.
WALLACE: He talked about the summer, sir, before it’s generally available, just like Dr. Redfield.
TRUMP: Because he said it’s a possibility that we’ll have the answer before November 1st. It could also be after that.
WALLACE: I’m talking about when it’s generally available, not
TRUMP: Well, we’re going to deliver it right away. We have the military all set up. Logistically, they’re all set up. We have our military that delivers soldiers and they can do 200,000 a day. They’re going to be delivering
BIDEN: This is the same man who told you
TRUMP: It’s all set up.
BIDEN: by Easter, this would be gone away. By the warm weather, it’d be gone. Miraculous, like a miracle. And by the way, maybe you could inject some bleach in your arm, and that would take care of it. This is the same man.
TRUMP: That was said sarcastically, and you know that. That was said sarcastically.
BIDEN: So here’s the deal. This man is talking about a vaccine. Every serious company is talking about maybe having a vaccine done by the end of the year, but the distribution of that vaccine will not occur until sometime beginning of the middle of next year to get it out, if we get the vaccine. And pray God we will. Pray God we will.
WALLACE: Mr. Vice President, I want to pick up
TRUMP: You’ll have the vaccine sooner than that.
WALLACE: I want to pick up on this question though. You say the public can trust the scientists, but they can’t trust President Trump. In fact, you said that again tonight. Your running mate, Senator Harris, goes further, saying that public health experts quote, “Will be muzzled, will be suppressed.” Given the fact that polls already show that people are concerned about the vaccine and are reluctant to take it, are you and your running mate, Senator Harris, contributing to that fear?
BIDEN: No more than the question you just asked him. You pointed out he puts pressure and disagrees with his own scientists.
WALLACE: But you’re saying you can’t
BIDEN: Everybody knows
WALLACE: Or Senator Harris is saying you can’t trust the scientist.
BIDEN: Well, no, no. You can trust the scientist. She didn’t say that. You can trust the
WALLACE: She said that public health experts quote, “Will be muzzled, will be suppressed.”
BIDEN: Yes. Well, that’s what he’s going to try to do, but there’s thousands of scientists out there, like here at this great hospital that don’t work for him. Their job doesn’t depend on him. They’re the people And by the way
TRUMP: We spoke to the scientists that are in charge
BIDEN: By the way
TRUMP: they will have the vaccine very soon.
WALLACE: Let him finish.
BIDEN: Do you believe for a moment what he’s telling you in light of all the lies he’s told you about the whole issue relating to COVID? He still hasn’t even acknowledged that he knew this was happening, knew how dangerous it was going to be back in February, and he didn’t even tell you. He’s on record as saying it. He panicked or he just looked at the stock market. One of the two. Because guess what? A lot of people died and a lot more are going to die unless he gets a lot smarter, a lot quicker
WALLACE: Mr. President?
TRUMP: Did you use the word smart? So you said you went to Delaware State, but you forgot the name of your college. You didn’t go to Delaware State. You graduated either the lowest or almost the lowest in your class. Don’t ever use the word smart with me. Don’t ever use that word.
BIDEN: Oh, give me a break.
TRUMP: Because you know what? There’s nothing smart about you, Joe. 47 years you’ve done nothing.
BIDEN: Well, let’s have this debate
TRUMP: Let me just tell you something, Joe. If you would have had the charge of what I was put through, I had to close the greatest economy in the history of our country. And by the way, now it’s being built again and it’s going up fast.
WALLACE: We’ll get to the economy in the next segment, sir.
TRUMP: It’s going up fast. I look forward to talking about it.
WALLACE: Okay. When it comes to how the virus has been handled so far, the two of you have taken very different approaches, and this is going to affect how the virus is handled going forward by whichever of you ends up becoming the next president. I want to quickly go through several of those. Reopenings. Vice President Biden, you have been much more reluctant than President Trump about reopening the economy and schools. Why, sir?
BIDEN: Because he doesn’t have a plan. If I were running it, I’d know what the plan is. You’ve got to provide these businesses the ability to have the money to be able to reopen with the PPE, as well as with the sanitation they need. You have to provide them classic
TRUMP: Tell that to Nancy Pelosi.
BIDEN: Will he just shush for a minute?
TRUMP: Tell that to Nancy Pelosi, and Schumer Chuck.
BIDEN: Nancy Pelosi and Schumer, they have a plan. He won’t even meet with them. The Republicans won’t meet in the Senate. He sits in his golf course. Well, I mean, literally, think about it. Think about it.
TRUMP: You probably play more than I do, Joe.
WALLACE: What about this question of reopenings and the fact
TRUMP: Well, he wants to shut down this country and I want to keep it open, and we did a great thing by shutting it down
BIDEN: You just admitted you’d shut it down.
TRUMP: Wait a minute, Joe. Let me shut you down for a second, Joe, just for one second. He wants to shut down the country. We just went through it. We had to, because we didn’t know anything about the disease. Now we’ve found that elderly people with heart problems and diabetes and different problems are very, very vulnerable. We learned a lot. Young children aren’t, even younger people aren’t. We’ve learned a lot, but he wants to shut it down. More people will be hurt by continuing. If you look at Pennsylvania, if you look at certain states that have been shut down, they have Democrat governors, all, one of the reasons they shut down is because they want to keep it shut down until after the election on November 3rd.
WALLACE: All right. I want to move onto another
TRUMP: Because it’s a political thing.
WALLACE: I want to move onto another subject.
BIDEN: I got to respond to that.
WALLACE: I want to move
TRUMP: But those states