 A woman came out of her house and saw 3 old men with long white beards sitting in her front yard.
She did not recognize them. She said I don’t think I know you, but you must be hungry.
Please come in and have something to eat. Is the man of the house home?, they asked.
No, she replied. He’s out. Then we cannot come in, they replied.
In the evening when her husband came home, she told him what had happened.
Go tell them I am home and invite them in! The woman went out and invited the men in.
We do not go into a House together, they replied.
Why is that? she asked.
One of the old men explained: His name is Wealth, he said pointing to one of his friends, and said pointing to another one, He is Success, and I am Love. Then he added, Now go in and discuss with your husband which one of us you want in your home. The woman went in and told her husband what was said. Her husband was overjoyed. How nice!, he said. Since that is the case, let us invite Wealth. Let him come and fill our home with wealth! His wife disagreed. My dear, why don’t we invite Success? Their daughter-in-law was listening from the other corner of the house. She jumped in with her own suggestion: Would it not be better to invite Love? Our home will then be filled with love! Let us heed our daughter-in-law’s advice, said the husband to his wife.
Go out and invite Love to be our guest. The woman went out and asked the 3 old men, Which one of you is Love? Please come in and be our guest. Love got up and started walking toward the house. The other 2 also got up and followed him.
Surprised, the lady asked Wealth and Success: I only invited Love, Why are you coming in? The old men replied together: If you had invited Wealth or Success, the other two of us would’ve stayed out, but since you invited Love, wherever He goes, we go with him. Wherever there is Love, there is also Wealth and Success!!! WEALTH - LOVE - SUCCESS  Once upon a time, there was an island where all the feelings lived: Happiness, Sadness, Knowledge, and all of the others, including Love. One day it was announced to the feelings that the island would sink, so all constructed boats and left. Except for Love.
Love was the only one who stayed. Love wanted to hold out until the last possible moment. When the island had almost sunk, Love decided to ask for help.
Richness was passing by Love in a grand boat. Love said, Richness, can you take me with you? Richness answered, No, I can’t. There is a lot of gold and silver in my boat. There is no place here for you. Love decided to ask Vanity who was also passing by in a beautiful vessel. Vanity, please help me! I can’t help you, Love. You are all wet and might damage my boat, Vanity answered.
Sadness was close by so Love asked, Sadness, let me go with you. Oh . . . Love, I am so sad that I need to be by myself! Happiness passed by Love, too, but she was so happy that she did not even hear when Love called her.
Suddenly, there was a voice, Come, Love, I will take you. It was an elder.
So blessed and overjoyed, Love even forgot to ask the elder where they were going. When they arrived at dry land, the elder went his own way. Realizing how much was owed the elder, Love asked Knowledge, another elder, Who Helped me? It was Time, Knowledge answered.
Time? asked Love. But why did Time help me? Knowledge smiled with deep wisdom and answered, Because only Time is capable of understanding how valuable Love is. 
