Some time ago, there lived a King. This King should have been contented with his life, given all the riches and luxuries he had. However, this was not the case! The King always found himself wondering why he just never seemed content with his life.
Sure, he had the attention of everyone wherever he went, attended fancy dinners and parties, but somehow, he still felt something was lacking and he couldn’t put his finger on it.
One day, the King had woken up earlier than usual to stroll around his palace. He entered his huge living room and came to a stop when he heard someone happily singing away... following this singing... he saw that one of the servants was singing and had a very contented look on his face.
This fascinated the King and he summoned this man to his chambers. The man entered the King’s chambers as ordered. The King asked why he was so happy? To this the man replied: Your Majesty, I am nothing but a servant, but I make enough of a living to keep my wife and children happy. We don’t need too much, a roof over our heads and warm food to fill our tummy. My wife and children are my inspiration; they are content with whatever little I bring home.
I am happy because my family is happy. Hearing this, the King dismissed the servant and summoned his Personal Assistant to his chambers.
The King related his personal anguish about his feelings and then related the story of the servant to his Personal Assistant, hoping that somehow, he will be able to come up with some reasoning that here was a King who could have anything he wished for at a snap of his fingers and yet was not contented, whereas, his servant, having so little was extremely contented.
The Personal Assistant listened attentively and came to a conclusion. He said, Your Majesty, I believe that the servant has not been made part of The 99 Club. The 99 Club? And what exactly is that? the King inquired.
To which the Assistant replied, Your Majesty, to truly know what The 99 Club is, you will have to do the following... place 99 Gold coins in a bag and leave it at this servant’s doorstep, you will then understand what The 99 Club is. That very same evening, the King arranged for 99 Gold coins to be placed in a bag at the servant’s doorstep. Although he was slightly hesitant and he thought he should have put Gold coins into the bag, but since his assistant had advised him to put 99 that is what he did.
The servant was just stepping out of his house when he saw a bag at his doorstep. Wondering about its contents, he took it into his house and opened the bag. When he opened the bag, he let out a great big shout of joy...Gold Coins... so many of them. He could hardly believe it. He called his wife to show her the coins.
He then took the bag to a table and emptied it out and began to count the coins. Doing so, THE CLUB 99  he realized that there were 99 coins and he thought it was an odd number so he counted again, and again and again only to come to the same conclusion... 99 Gold Coins.
He began to wonder, what could have happened to that last one coin? For no one would leave 99 coins. He began to search his entire house, looked around his backyard for hours, not wanting to lose out on that one coin. Finally, exhausted, he decided that he was going to have to work harder than ever to make up for that one Gold coin to make his entire collection an even Gold Coins.
He got up the next morning, in an extremely horrible mood, shouting at the children and his wife for his delay, not realizing that he had spent most of the night conjuring ways of working hard so that he had enough money to buy himself that gold coin. He went to work as usual - but not in his usual best mood, singing happily - as he grumpily did his daily errands.
Seeing the man’s attitude change so drastically, the King was puzzled. He promptly summoned his assistant to his chambers. The King related his thoughts about the servant and once again, his assistant listened. The King could not believe that the servant who until yesterday had been singing away and was happy and content with his life had taken a sudden change of attitude, even though he should have been happier after receiving the gold coins.
To this the assistant replied Ah! But your Majesty, the servant has now officially joined The 99 Club. He explained: The 99 Club is just a name given to those people who have everything but yet are never contented, therefore they are always working hard and striving for that extra one to round it out to 100! We have so much to be thankful for and we can live with very little in our lives, but the minute we are given something bigger and better, we want even more! We are not the same happy contented person we used to be, we want more and more and by wanting more and more we don’t realize the price we pay for it. We lose our sleep, our happiness; we hurt the people around us just as a price to pay for our growing needs and desires. That is what joining The 99 Club is all about. Hearing this King decided that from that day onwards, he was going to start appreciating all the little things in life.
Striving for more is always good, but let’s not strive so hard and for so much that we loses all those near and dear to our hearts, we shouldn’t compromise our happiness for moments of luxuries! 
REPENTANCE A person once heard a pious Muslim say that For the last thirty years I am repenting for a sin and I don’t know how Allah will deal with me regarding it? The listener asked: What was your sin? The pious Muslim said: I used to have a shop in the Bazaar. One day I heard that the whole Bazaar was burning so I rushed to see my shop. When I reached there I saw that except my shop all the shops were razed to the ground. I said ‘Al-Hamdo lillah’ (All praise to Allah); but immediately I realized my mistake. How can I call myself a Muslim when I couldn’t feel the loss of my neighbors? That is why I am repenting for that lapse on my part for the last thirty years.  Sayyed Jawad Ameli, a great Mujtahid, was having his dinner when someone knocked at his door.
A servant from his master, Ayatullah Sayyed Mehdi Bahrul Uloom, appeared and said: Your master has sent for you to come immediately. He has just sat down for his dinner but refuses to eat until he sees you. There was no time to lose. Sayyed Jawad Ameli left his dinner and rushed to Ayatullah Bahrul Uloom’s residence. Just as he entered, the master looked disapprovingly at him and said: Sayyed Jawad! You have no fear of Allah! Don’t you feel ashamed in front of Allah? This came as a shock to him, as he could not remember doing anything to incur the wrath of his master.
He said: My master may guide me where I have failed. Ayatullah Bahrul Uloom replied: It is now a week that your neighbor and his family are without wheat and rice. He was trying to buy some dates from a shop on credit but the shopkeeper refused to grant him any more credit. He returned home empty-handed and the family is without a morsel of food. Sayed Jawad was taken by surprise. By Allah, he said, I have no knowledge about this. That is why I am displeased all the more. How can you be unaware of your own neighbor? Seven days of difficulties have passed and you tell me you do not know about it. Well, If you had known and ignored him despite your knowledge, then you would not even he a Muslim, Ayatullah Uloom adjoined. Then he instructed him to take all the dishes of food before him to his neighbor. Sit with him to eat, so that he does not feel ashamed. And take this sum for his future ration. Place it under his pillow or carpet so that he is not humiliated, and inform me when this work is completed, for not until then shall I eat. That man is not from me who sleeps contentedly while his neighbor sleeps hungry. Holy Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) 
A BOX FULL OF KISSES The story goes back some time ago, a man punished his 3-year-old daughter for wasting a roll of gold wrapping paper. Money was tight and he became infuriated when the child tried to decorate a box to put under the Christmas tree. Nevertheless, the little girl brought the gift to her father the next morning and said, This is for you, Daddy. The man was embarrassed by his earlier over reaction, but his anger flared again when he found out the box was empty. He yelled at her, stating, Don’t you know, when you give someone a present, there is supposed to be something inside? The little girl looked up at him with tears in her eyes and cried, Oh, Daddy, it’s not empty at all. I blew kisses into the box. They’re all for you, Daddy. The father was crushed. He put his arms around his little girl, and he begged for her forgiveness.
Only a short time later, an accident took the life of the child. It is also told that her father kept that gold box by his bed for many years and, whenever he was discouraged, he would take out an imaginary kiss and remember the love of the child who had put it there.
In a very real sense, each one of us, as humans beings, have been given a gold container filled with unconditional love and kisses... from our children, family members, friends, and God. There is simply no other possession, anyone could hold, more precious than this.
