The cell is the basic unit of life. Some organisms are made up of a single cell, like bacteria, while others are made up of trillions of cells. Human beings are made up of cells, too.
Different Types of Cells
There are lots of different types of cells. Each type of cell is different and performs a different function. In the human body, we have nerve cells which can be as long as from our feet to our spinal cord. Nerve cells help to transport messages around the body. We also have billions of tiny little brain cells which help us think and muscle cells which help us move around. There are many more cells in our body that help us to function and stay alive.
Although there are lots of different kinds of cells, they are often divided into two main categories: prokaryotic and eukaryotic.
Prokaryotic Cells - The prokaryotic cell is a simple, small cell with no nucleus. Organisms made from prokaryotic cells are very small, such as bacteria. There are three main regions of the prokaryotic cell:
1) The outside protection or "envelope" of the cell. This is made up of the cell wall, membrane, and capsule.
2) The flagella, which are a whip-like appendages that can help the cell to move. Note: not all prokaryotic cells have flagella.
3) The inside of the cell called the cytoplasmic region. This region includes the nucleoid, cytoplasm, and ribosomes.
Eukaryotic Cells - These cells are typically a lot bigger and more complex than prokaryotic cells. They have a defined cell nucleus which houses the cell's DNA. These are the types of cells we find in plants and animals.
Parts of the Cell
There are a lot of parts and functions to some cells. Here are some of the main components many cells have:
Membrane - This is the outer boundary of the cell. Sort of like the skin. It allows some substances in and keeps others out.
Mitochondria - This is where the cell gets its energy. In the human body, food we have digested reacts with oxygen in the mitochondria to make energy for the cell.
Ribosomes - Ribosomes are like tiny factories that make different things the cell needs to function, like proteins.
Nucleus - The nucleus is the brains of the cell. It uses chromosomes to instruct the rest of the cell what to do next.
Cytoplasm - This is the stuff that fills up the rest of the cell. The other components of the cell float around in the cytoplasm. It's mostly water.
Lysosomes - These guys clean up the place getting rid of waste and other unwanted substances that may get into the cell.
The machines inside the cell like the nucleus, ribosomes, and lysosomes are called organelles.
Fun Facts About Cells
They were discovered by the scientist Robert Hooke.
One of the largest known cells is the ostrich egg which can weigh over three pounds.
When many cells of the same kind are together in a group, it's call tissue.
The word cell comes from the Latin word cellula, which means small compartment.
Humans actually carry more bacteria cells than human cells. Yuck!
The human body is a complex biological system involving cells, tissues, organs, and systems all working together to make up a human being.
Science Human Body Art
Human Body
Source: openclipart.org
Main Structures
From the outside, the human body can be divided into several main structures. The head houses the brain which controls the body. The neck and trunk house many of the important systems that keep the body alive and healthy. The limbs (arms and legs) help the body to move about and function in the world.
Senses
The human body has five main senses that it uses to convey information about the outside world to the brain. These senses include sight (eyes), hearing (ears)Hearing and the Ear, smell (nose), taste (tongue), and touch (skin).
Organ Systems
The human body consists of several organ systems. Each system is made up of organs and other body structures that work together to perform a specific function. Most scientists divide the body into 11 systems.
Skeletal System - The skeletal system is made up of bones, ligaments, and tendons. It supports the overall structure of the body and protects the organs.
Muscular System - The muscular system works closely with the skeletal system. Muscles help the body to move and interact with the world.
Cardiovascular/Circulatory System - The circulatory system helps deliver nutrients throughout the body. It consists of the heart, blood, and blood vessels.
Digestive System - The digestive system helps to convert food into nutrients and energy for the body. Some of the organs included in the digestive system are the stomach, small intestine, large intestine, liver, and pancreas.
Nervous System - The nervous system helps the body to communicate and allows the brain to control various functions of the body. It includes the brain, spinal cord, and a large network of nerves.
Respiratory System - The respiratory system brings oxygen into the body through the lungs and windpipe. It also removes carbon dioxide from the body.
Endocrine System - The endocrine system produces hormones that help regulate the other systems in the body. It includes the pancreas, adrenal glands, thyroid, pituitary, and more.
Urinary System - The urinary system uses the kidneys to filter the blood and eliminate waste. It includes the kidneys, bladder, and urethra.
Immune/Lymphatic System - The lymphatic and immune systems work together to protect the body from diseases.
Reproductive System - The reproductive system includes the sex organs that enable people to have babies. This system is different for males and females.
Integumentary System - The integumentary system helps protect the body from the outside world. It includes the skin, hair, and nails.
Cells, Tissues, and Organs
Like all living organisms, the human body is made up of cells. There are all different types of cells in the human body. When lots of similar cells work together to perform a function, they make up tissue. There are four main types of tissue in the human body including muscle tissue, connective tissue, epithelial tissue, and nervous tissue.
Organs are somewhat independent parts of the body that carry out special functions. They are made up of tissues. Examples of organs include the eyes, heart, lungs, liver, and stomach.
Interesting Facts about the Human Body
The human body is made up of around 37 trillion cells.
The average human heart beats around 100,000 times every day.
If you spread out the wrinkles in the brain it would be about the size of a pillow case.
Fingernails grow much faster than toenails. They are both made of a protein called keratin.
About 60% of the human body is made up of water.
The brain itself does not feel pain.
The largest of the human internal organs is the small intestine.
Acid in the stomach is powerful enough to dissolve some metals.
The left lung is typically around 10% smaller than the right lung. This is to make room for the heart.
Humans are born with 270 bones. Several of these bones fuse together by adulthood making a total of 206 bones in the adult human body.
What is the immune system?
The immune system helps to protect us against diseases caused by tiny invaders (called pathogens) such as viruses, bacteria, and parasites. The immune system is made up of specialized organs, cells, and tissues that all work together to destroy these invaders. Some of the main organs involved in the immune system include the spleen, lymph nodes, thymus, and bone marrow.
How does it work?
The immune system develops all kinds of cells that help to destroy disease causing microbes. Some of these cells are specifically designed for a certain kind of disease. All throughout the body, disease fighting cells are stored in the immune system waiting for the signal to go to battle.
The immune system is able to communicate throughout the entire body. When pathogens are detected, messages are sent out, warning that the body is being attacked. The immune system then directs the correct attacking cells to the problem area to destroy the invaders.
Antigens and Antibodies
Scientists call the invaders that can cause disease antigens. Antigens trigger an immune response in the body. One of the main immune responses is the production of proteins that help to fight off the antigens. These proteins are called antibodies.
How do the antibodies know which cells to attack?
In order to work properly, the immune system must know which cells are good cells and which are bad. Antibodies are designed with specific binding sites that only bind with certain antigens. They ignore "good" cells and only attack the bad ones.
You can see from the picture below that the antibodies each have a specially designed binding site. They will only bind with the antigen that has a "marker" that matches up perfectly.
Types of Immunity Cells
The immune system has cells that perform specific functions. These cells are found in the blood stream and are called white blood cells.
B cells - B cells are also called B lymphocytes. These cells produce antibodies that bind to antigens and neutralize them. Each B cell makes one specific type of antibody. For example, there is a specific B cell that helps to fight off the flu.
T cells - T cells are also called T lymphocytes. These cells help to get rid of good cells that have already been infected.
Helper T cells - Helper T cells tell B cells to start making antibodies or instruct killer T cells to attack.
Killer T cells - Killer T cells destroy cells that have been infected by the invader.
Memory cells - Memory cells remember antigens that have already attacked the body. They help the body to fight off any new attacks by a specific antigen.
How do we get immunity?
The immune system is very smart and can adapt to new infections. Our bodies gain immunities in two ways: active immunity and passive immunity.
Active immunity - When our bodies develop immunities over time through the immune system this is called active immunity. Whenever we are exposed to a disease (and sometimes get sick), the immune system learns how to fight off the disease. The next time that disease invades, our body is ready for it and can quickly produce antibodies to prevent infection. We can also gain active immunity from vaccines.
Passive immunity - When we are born, our bodies may already have some immunity. Babies get antibodies from their mother as they are growing in the womb. They may also gain some antibodies from their mother's milk. It is also possible to get antibodies from an animal or another person through immunoglobulin treatments. These are all passive immunities because they weren't developed by our body's own immune system.
How Vaccines Work
Vaccines introduce microbes that are already killed or modified so we don't get sick. However, the immune system doesn't know this. It builds up defenses and antibodies against the disease. When the real disease tries to attack, our body is ready and can quickly neutralize the antigens.
Interesting Facts about the Immune System
Some immunity eventually goes away, so we need a new vaccine after a period of time.
Different people have different levels of immunity to certain diseases. This is why some people get sick more often than others.
Sometimes the immune system can get confused and attack good cells. Type I diabetes is caused when T cells attack insulin producing cells in the pancreas.
T cells and B cells are stored in lymph nodes throughout the body. They enter the blood stream when they are needed to defend against disease.
Your body responds much faster and stronger the second time it sees an antigen.