Plants and animals need a healthy environment to survive. An ecosystem is an area where living organisms interact in a specific way with the local environment to survive. When ecosystems are damaged by man, then some living organisms may not be able to survive. A biome is a large group of similar ecosystems like the desert, savanna, and rainforest.
Environmental science studies the environment and how the earth works. Environmental scientists often study how humans have impacted the Earth's environment and how we can reduce the impact that humans have on the environment.
Environmental scientists study things like the atmosphere, the oceans, geology, habitats, and ecology.
The Earth's environment is constantly recycling nutrients so they can be used by different parts of the environment. These cycles are important for the existence of living organisms. Some important cycles include the water cycle, the nitrogen cycle, the carbon cycle, the oxygen cycle, and the food chain.
Human activities have created many environmental issues from land, water, and air pollution. Part of environmental science is to determine how the environment has been impacted and then to work on ways to help the environment recover.
One important aspect of helping the environment to recover is renewable energy. Renewable energy uses energy sources that cannot be "used up." Rather than burning fossil fuels like coal and oil, renewable energy uses energy sources like the wind and the Sun.
Deserts are primarily defined by their lack of rain. They generally get 10 inches or less rain in a year. Deserts are characterized in an overall lack of water. They have dry soil, little to no surface water, and high evaporation. They are so dry that sometimes rain evaporates before it can hit the ground!
Hot in the Day, Cold at Night
Because deserts are so dry and their humidity is so low, they have no "blanket" to help insulate the ground. As a result, they may get very hot during the day with the sun beating down, but don't hold the heat overnight. Many deserts can quickly get cold once the sun sets. Some deserts can reach temperatures of well over 100 degrees F during the day and then drop below freezing (32 degrees F) during the night.
Where are the major hot and dry deserts?
The largest hot and dry desert in the world is the Sahara Desert in Northern Africa. The Sahara is a sandy desert with giant sand dunes. It covers over 3 million square miles of Africa. Other major deserts include the Arabian Desert in the Middle East, the Gobi Desert in Northern China and Mongolia, and the Kalahari Desert in Africa. Go here to learn more about the world's deserts.
Map of desert biomes
How do animals survive in the desert?
Animals have adapted to survive in the desert despite its extreme temperatures and lack of water. Many of the animals are nocturnal. Meaning they sleep during the heat of the day and come out when it is cooler at night. These same animals sleep in burrows, tunnels under the ground, during the day in order to stay cool. Desert animals include meerkats, camels, reptiles such as the horned toad, scorpions, and grasshoppers.
Animals that live in the desert also have adapted to needing little water. Many get all the water they need from the food they eat. Other animals store up water that they can use later. The camel stores up fat in its hump while other animals store up reserves in their tails.
What plants can live here?
Only certain types of plants can survive the harsh environment of the desert. These include cactus, grasses, shrubs, and some short trees. You won't see a lot of tall trees in the desert. Most of these plants have a way to store water in their stems, leaves, or trunks so they can survive a long time without water. They also tend to be spread out from each other and have a large root system so they can gather up all the water possible when it does rain. Many desert plants are armed with sharp spines and needles to help protect them from animals.
Dust Storms
Because the desert is so dry, the wind will grind pebbles and sand into dust. Occasionally a big wind storm will gather up this dust into a huge storm. Dust storms can be over 1 mile high and so thick with dust you can't breathe. They can travel for over a thousand miles, too.
Expanding Deserts
Currently deserts cover around 20% of the world's land, but they are growing. This is called desertification and is caused by different factors including human activities. The Sahara Desert is expanding at the rate of around 30 miles per year.
Facts about the Desert Biome
The giant saguaro cactus can grow 50 feet tall and live for 200 years.
Plants that store water in their stems are called succulents.
Some desert trees have deep taproots that grow up to 30 feet deep in order to find water.
The elf owl will sometimes live inside a cactus during the day and then come out at night to hunt.
Dust storms from the Gobi Desert have been known to reach Beijing, China nearly 1,000 miles away.
Camels can go without water for a week. A thirsty camel can drink 30 gallons of water in less than 15 minutes.
The grasslands biome can be divided up into the temperate grasslands and tropical grasslands. On this page we will discuss the temperate grasslands. Tropical grasslands are also called savannas. You can read more about this biome on the savanna biome page.
What are grasslands?
Grasslands are wide expanses of land filled with low growing plants such as grasses and wildflowers. The amount of rain is not enough to grow tall trees and produce a forest, but it is enough to not form a desert. The temperate grasslands have seasons including a hot summer and a cold winter.
Where are the major world grasslands?
Grasslands are generally located between deserts and forests. The major temperate grasslands are located in central North America in the United States, in Southeast South America in Uruguay and Argentina, and in Asia along the southern portion of Russia and Mongolia.
Map of the grasslands biome
Types of Temperate Grasslands
Each major area of grasslands in the world has its own characteristics and is often called by other names:
Prairie - Grasslands in North America are called the prairies. They cover around 1.4 million square miles of the central United States including some of Canada and Mexico.
Steppes - The steppes are grasslands that cover southern Russia all the way to the Ukraine and Mongolia. The steppes stretch over 4,000 miles of Asia including much of the fabled Silk Road from China to Europe.
Pampas - The grasslands in South America are often called the pampas. They cover around 300,000 square miles between the Andes Mountains and the Atlantic Ocean.
Animals in the Grasslands
A variety of animals live in the grasslands. These include prairie dogs, wolves, turkeys, eagles, weasels, bobcats, foxes, and geese. A lot of smaller animals hide down in the grasses such as snakes, mice, and rabbits.
The North American plains were once full of bison. These large herbivores ruled the plains. It is estimated there were millions of them before the Europeans arrived and began slaughtering them in the 1800s. Although there are numerous bison in commercial herds today, there are few in the wild.
Plants in the Grasslands
Different kinds of grass grow in different areas of the grasslands. There are actually thousands of different kinds of grasses that grow in this biome. Where they grow usually depends on the amount of rain that area gets. In wetter grasslands, there are tall grasses that can grow up to six feet high. In dryer areas the grasses grow shorter, maybe only a foot or two tall.
Types of grasses that grow here include buffalo grass, blue grama grass, needle grass, big bluestem, and switchgrass.
Other plants that grow here include sunflowers, sagebrush, clover, asters, goldenrods, butterfly weed, and butterweed.
Fires
Wildfires can play an important role in the biodiversity of the grasslands. Scientists believe that occasional fires help to rid the land of old grasses and allow for new grasses to grow, bringing new life to the area.
Farming and Food
The grassland biome plays an important role in human farming and food. They are used to grow staple crops such as wheat and corn. They are also good for grazing livestock such as cattle.
The Shrinking Grasslands
Unfortunately, human farming and development has caused the grassland biome to steadily shrink. There are conservation efforts going on to try and save the grasslands that are left as well as the endangered plants and animals.
Facts about the Grassland Biome
Forbs are plants that grow in the grasslands that aren't grasses. They are leafy and soft-stemmed plants such as sunflowers.
Prairie dogs are rodents that live in burrows under the prairies. They live in large groups called towns that can sometimes cover hundreds of acres of land.
It is thought that there were over a billion prairie dogs on the Great Plains at one point.
Other grassland animals need the prairie dog to survive, but the population is declining.
Only around 2% of the original prairies of North America still exist. Much of it has been turned into farmland.
Fires on grasslands can move as fast as 600 feet per minute.
There are two major types of aquatic biomes, the marine and the freshwater. The freshwater biome is defined as having a low salt content versus the marine biome which is saltwater like the ocean. Go here if you want to learn more about the marine biome.
Types of Freshwater Biomes
There are three main types of freshwater biomes: ponds and lakes, streams and rivers, and wetlands. We'll go into the details of each below.
Ponds and Lakes
Ponds and lakes are often called lentic ecosystems. This means that they have still or standing waters, not moving like rivers or streams. Go here to learn about the major lakes of the world.
Lakes are often divided up into four zones of biotic communities:
Littoral zone - This is the area closest to the shore where aquatic plants grow.
Limnetic zone - This is the open surface waters of the lake, away from the shore.
Euphotic zone - This is the area below the surface of the water where there is still enough sunlight for photosynthesis.
Benthic zone - This is the floor, or bottom, of the lake.
The temperature of lakes can change over time. In tropical areas the lakes will stay the same relative temperature with the water getting colder the deeper you go. In northern lakes, the change in temperature due to the seasons will move the water in the lake as shown below.
Water cycling in lakes
Lake animals - Animals include plankton, crayfish, snails, worms, frogs, turtles, insects, and fishes.
Lake plants - Plants include water lilies, duckweed, cattail, bulrush, stonewort, and bladderwort.
Streams and Rivers
Rivers and streams are often called lotic ecosystems. This means that they have flowing waters, unlike the still waters of ponds and lakes. This biome can vary in size dramatically from small trickling streams to mile wide rivers that travel for thousands of miles. Go here to learn about the major rivers of the world.
Key factors influencing the ecology of streams and rivers include:
Flow - the amount of water and the strength at which it flows will impact the types of plants and animals that can live in a river.
Light - light has an impact because it provides energy to plants through photosynthesis. The amount of light due to seasons or other factors will impact the river's ecosystem.
Temperature - The climate of the land the river is flowing through will have an impact on the local plant and animal life.
Chemistry - this has to do with the type of geology that the river is flowing through. It impacts what type of soil, rocks, and nutrients are in the river.
River animals - Animals that live in or around the river include insects, snails, crabs, fishes such as salmon and catfish, salamanders, snakes, crocodiles, otters, and beavers.
River plants - Plants that grow around rivers vary greatly depending on the location of the river in the world. The plants typically live along the edge of the river where the water is moving slower. Plants include tapegrass, water stargrass, willow trees, and river birch.
Wetlands Biome
The wetlands biome is a combination of land and water. It can be thought of as land that is saturated with water. The land may be mostly underwater for part of the year or just flooded at certain times. One of the key characteristics of a wetland is that it supports aquatic plants.
Wetlands include bogs, swamps, and marshes. They are often located near large bodies of water like lakes and rivers and can be found throughout the world.
Wetlands can play an important role in nature. When located near rivers, wetlands can help to prevent flooding. They also help to purify and filter water. They are the home to many species of plants and animals.
Wetland animals - Wetlands have a huge diversity in animal life. Amphibians, birds, and reptiles all do well in the wetlands. The largest predators are alligators and crocodiles. Other animals include beavers, minks, raccoons, and deer.
Wetland plants - Wetland plants may grow entirely underwater or float on top of the water. Other plants grow mostly out of the water, like large trees. Plants include milkweed, water lilies, duckweed, cattail, cypress trees, and mangroves.
Facts about the Freshwater Biome
Scientists that study freshwater bodies of water like ponds, lakes, and rivers are called limnologists.
The amount of rainfall varies widely depending on where a wetland is located. It could be as little as seven inches per year to over a hundred inches per year.
Marshes are wetlands without trees.
Swamps are wetlands that grow trees and have seasonal flooding.
Tidal swamps are sometimes called mangrove swamps because the mangroves can grow in the mix of freshwater and saltwater.
The largest lake in the world is the Caspian Sea.
The longest river in the world is the Nile River.
The largest wetland in the world is the Pantanal in South America.
One of the most fascinating biomes on planet Earth is the tropical rainforest. It is filled with tall trees, interesting plants, giant insects, and all sorts of animals.
What makes a forest a rainforest?
As you might have guessed from the name, rainforests are forests that get a lot of rain. Tropical rainforests are located in the tropics, near the equator. Most rainforests get at least 75 inches of rain with many getting well over 100 inches in areas.
Rainforests are also very humid and warm. Because they are close to the equator, the temperature stays between 70 and 90 degrees F for most of the year.
Where are the world's rainforests?
There are three major areas of tropical rainforests:
Africa - The major tropical rainforest in Africa is in the southern central portion of the continent with the Congo River running through it. There are also rainforests in western Africa and Madagascar.
Southeast Asia - Much of Southeast Asia is considered part of a tropical rainforest biome. It runs all the way from Myanmar to New Guinea.
South America - This is the world's largest tropical rainforest. It covers much of the northern part of South America as well as the southern portion of Central America. The area is often called the Amazon basin and has the Amazon and Orinoco Rivers running through it.
Rainforest biome map
Biodiversity
The tropical rainforest has the most biodiversity of all the land biomes. Despite only covering around 6% of the Earth's surface, scientists estimate that around half of the planet's animal and plant species live in the world's rainforests.
Layers of the Rainforest
The rainforest can be divided up into three layers: the canopy, the understory, and the forest floor. Different animals and plants live in each different layer.
The canopy - This is the top layer of trees. These trees are usually at least 100 feet tall. Their branches and leaves form an umbrella over the rest of the layers. Most of the plants and animals live on this layer. This includes monkeys, birds, insects, and reptiles of all sorts. Some animals can live their entire lives without leaving the canopy to touch the ground. This layer is the loudest layer with the animals making lots of noise.
The understory - Beneath the canopy is the understory. This layer is made up of some shorter trees and shrubs, but mostly the trunks and branches of the canopy trees. This layer is home to some of the larger predators like snakes and leopards. It is also home to owls, bats, insects, frogs, iguanas, and various other animals.
The forest floor - Because of the thickness of the canopy, very little sunlight makes it to the forest floor. This layer is home to lots of insects and spiders. There are also some animals that live on this layer including deer, pigs, and snakes. This layer is the quietest layer as animals sneak around in the dark making little noise.
Sometimes scientists refer to a fourth layer called the emergent layer. This is made up of tall trees that grow above the canopy.
What makes this biome so important?
The rainforests are important to the world for many reasons. One reason is that they act as the Earth's lungs by producing around 40% of the world's oxygen. Since all of us need oxygen to live, that reason ranks pretty high. The rainforests also provide a number of important drugs to help sick people and cure diseases. It is believed by many that there are even cures for cancer waiting for us to discover in the rainforest. The rainforest is also home to many species of animals and is a beautiful and irreplaceable part of nature.
The Disappearing Rainforests
Unfortunately, human development is killing off much of the world's rainforest. Around 40% of the world's rainforests have already been lost. Environmentalists are doing what they can to help countries preserve this vital biome.
Facts About Tropical Rainforests
Surprisingly, the soil in a rainforest is shallow and has little nutrients.
In the Amazon rainforest there are over 2,000 species of butterflies.
They are home to interesting "flying" animals such as squirrels, snakes, and frogs.
It is estimated that 25% of the ingredients in medicines today come from the rainforest.
Rainforests impact the temperatures and weather patterns throughout the world.
One fifth of the world's freshwater supply is in the Amazon rainforest.
Every second, a section of rainforest the size of a football field is cut down.
Only about 2% of the sunlight hits the forest floor.